1. Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,
Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

1. And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house
of Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,
which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring the
kingdom again to Rehoboam.

2. And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, thou wast he
that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God said
unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be ruler
over my people Israel.

2. But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

3. Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron;
and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and
they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the
LORD by Samuel.

3. Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all
Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying,

4. And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; where
the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land.

4. Thus saith the LORD, Ye
shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to
his house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words of
the LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.

5. And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come
hither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city
of David.

5. And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in
Judah.

6. And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be
chief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and was
chief.

6. He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,

7. And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the city
of David.

7. And Bethzur,
and Shoco, and Adullam,

8. And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about:
and Joab repaired the rest of the city.

8. And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,

9. So David waxed greater and greater: for the LORD of hosts was
with him.

9. And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,

10. These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who
strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and with all Israel,
to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.

10. And Zorah, and Aijalon,
and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.

11. And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had;
Jashobeam, an Hachmonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up his
spear against three hundred slain by him at one time.

11. And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, and
store of victual, and of oil and wine.

12. And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was
one of the three mighties.

12. And in every several city he put shields and spears, and made
them exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

13. He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were
gathered together to battle, where was a parcel of ground full of
barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.

13. And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted
to him out of all their coasts.

14. And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, and
delivered it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a
great deliverance.

14. For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them
off from executing the priest’s office unto the LORD:

15. Now three of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David,
into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines encamped in
the valley of Rephaim.

15. And he
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for
the calves which he had made.

16. And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines’ garrison
was then at Bethlehem.

16. And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set their
hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrifice
unto the LORD God of their fathers.

17. And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!

17. So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the
son of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in the
way of David and Solomon.

18. And
the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water
out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and
brought it to David: but David would not drink of it, but poured it
out to the LORD.

18. And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son
of David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;

19. And said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this thing:
shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in
jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it.
Therefore he would not drink it.

These things did these three mightiest.

19. Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.

20. And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: for
lifting up his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had a
name among the three.

20. And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; which
bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

21. Of the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he was
their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.

21. And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his
wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore
concubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescore
daughters.)

22. Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionlike men of Moab:
also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.

22. And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the
chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him
king.

23. And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits
high; and in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and
he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the
Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear.

23. And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children
throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced
city: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired many
wives.

24. These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name
among the three mighties.

25. Behold, he was honourable among the thirty, but attained not to
the first three: and David set him over his guard.

26. Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of
Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

27. Shammoth the
Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,

28. Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Abiezer the Antothite,

29. Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the
Ahohite,

30. Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the
Netophathite,

31. Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertained
to the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

32. Hurai of
the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

33. Azmaveth the
Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,

34. The sons of Hashem the
Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite,

35. Ahiam the son
of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,

36. Hepher the
Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,

37. Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai
the son of Ezbai,

38. Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of
Haggeri,

39. Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the
armourbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

40. Ira the Ithrite, Gareb
the Ithrite,

41. Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

42. Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, and
thirty with him,

43. Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the
Mithnite,

44. Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of
Hothan the Aroerite,

45. Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his
brother, the Tizite,

46. Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and
Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,

47. Eliel,
and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.