1. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds,
and with every leader.

1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign
over Judah.

2. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem
good unto you, and that it be of the LORD our God, let us send abroad
unto our brethren every where, that are left in all the land of
Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in
their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:

2. He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between
Abijah and Jeroboam.

3. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we enquired
not at it in the days of Saul.

3. And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of
war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set the
battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men,
being mighty men of valour.

4. And all the congregation said that they would do so: for the
thing was right in the eyes of all the people.

4. And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel;

5. So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor of Egypt even
unto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God from
Kirjathjearim.

5. Ought
ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over
Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of
salt?

6. And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, to
Kirjathjearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of
God the LORD, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is
called on it.

6. Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the
son of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.

7. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of
Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drave the cart.

7. And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial,
and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstand
them.

8. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might,
and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with
timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.

8. And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand
of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are with
you golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

9. And when they came unto the threshingfloor of Chidon, Uzza put
forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.

9. Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,
and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the
nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself
with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them
that are no gods.

10. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote
him, because he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.

10. But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken
him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons of
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business:

11. And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach
upon Uzza: wherefore that place is called Perezuzza to this day.

11. And they burn
unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and
sweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure
table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn
every evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye have
forsaken him.

12. And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring
the ark of God home to me?

12. And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and his
priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of
Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for ye
shall not prosper.

13. So David brought not the ark home to
himself to the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of
Obededom the Gittite.

13. But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so
they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.

14. And the ark of God remained with the family of Obededom in his
house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obededom, and
all that he had.

14. And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and
behind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the
trumpets.

15. Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah.

16. And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered
them into their hand.

17. And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so
there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

18. Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and
the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD God
of their fathers.

19. And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him,
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,
and Ephraim with the towns thereof.

20. Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of
Abijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.

21. But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begat
twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

22. And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his
sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.