1. Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of
cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

1. So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city
of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet ten years.

2. And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over
Israel, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his people
Israel.

2. And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD
his God:

3. And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons
and daughters.

3. For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves:

4. Now these are the names of his children which he had in
Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

4. And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.

5. And Ibhar,
and Elishua, and Elpalet,

5. Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

6. And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

6. And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

7. And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

7. Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

8. And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over
all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard
of it, and went out against them.

8. And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields
and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty men of valour.

9. And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

9. And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host
of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Mareshah.

10. And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the
Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD
said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.

10. Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

11. So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. Then
David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the
breaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that place
Baalperazim.

11. And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have
no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail against thee.

12. And when they had left their gods there, David gave a
commandment, and they were burned with fire.

12. So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
and the Ethiopians fled.

13. And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the
valley.

13. And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto
Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and they carried away very much spoil.

14. Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Go
not up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them over
against the mulberry trees.

14. And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there
was exceeding much spoil in them.

15. And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in the
tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: for
God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

15. They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.

16. David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote the
host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

17. And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORD
brought the fear of him upon all nations.