1. So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son
king over Israel.

1. And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took
the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the
son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of
Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

2. And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the
priests and the Levites.

2. And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all
the cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they
came to Jerusalem.

3. Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and
upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and
eight thousand.

3. And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the
house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king’s son shall
reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.

4. Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work
of the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:

4. This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering
on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of
the doors;

5. Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praised
the LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praise
therewith.

5. And a third part shall be at the king’s house; and a
third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be
in the courts of the house of the LORD.

6. And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi,
namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

6. But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,
and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are
holy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.

7. Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.

7. And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man
with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into the
house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he
cometh in, and when he goeth out.

8. The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel,
three.

8. So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that
Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that
were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on the
sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

9. The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three.
These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

9. Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of
hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king
David’s, which were in the house of God.

10. And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and
Beriah.

These four were the sons of Shimei.

10. And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his
hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the
temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.

11. And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and
Beriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,
according to their father’s house.

11. Then they brought out the king’s son, and put upon him the
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and
his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

12. The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

12. Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and
praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:

13. The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,
that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for
ever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and to
bless in his name for ever.

13. And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the
people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the
singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise.
Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

14. Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the
tribe of Levi.

14. Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds
that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For
the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.

15. The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

15. So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering
of the horse gate by the king’s house, they slew her there.

16. Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.

16. And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the
people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD’s people.

17. And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer
had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

17. Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it
down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan
the priest of Baal before the altars.

18. Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

18. Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by
the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the
house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it
was ordained by David.

19. Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

19. And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD,
that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.

20. Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

20. And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the
governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought
down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the
high gate into the king’s house, and set the king upon the throne of
the kingdom.

21. The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;
Eleazar, and Kish.

21. And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet,
after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.

22. And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their
brethren the sons of Kish took them.

23. The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

24. These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;
even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the
LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

25. For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever:

26. And also unto
the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels
of it for the service thereof.

27. For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from
twenty years old and above:

28. Because their office was to wait on
the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the
courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things,
and the work of the service of the house of God;

29. Both for the
shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for the
unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that
which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size;

30. And to
stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at
even:

31. And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the
sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number,
according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the
LORD:

32. And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of
the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of
the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the
LORD.