1. Now Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and
Aharah the third,

1. And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon
had built the house of the LORD, and his own house,

2. Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.

2. That the
cities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, and
caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

3. And the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,

3. And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed against it.

4. And
Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,

4. And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities,
which he built in Hamath.

5. And Gera, and Shephuphan, and
Huram.

5. Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron the nether,
fenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars;

6. And these are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of the fathers
of the inhabitants of Geba, and they removed them to Manahath:

6. And Baalath, and all
the store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the
cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in
Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of his
dominion.

7. And
Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he removed them, and begat Uzza, and
Ahihud.

7. As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and the
Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites,
which were not of Israel,

8. And Shaharaim begat children in the country of Moab, after he had
sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.

8. But of their children, who were left
after them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, them
did Solomon make to pay tribute until this day.

9. And he begat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and
Malcham,

9. But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for his
work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and
captains of his chariots and horsemen.

10. And Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons,
heads of the fathers.

10. And these were the chief of king Solomon’s officers, even two
hundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.

11. And of Hushim he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.

11. And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of
David unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wife
shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the
places are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.

12. The sons of Elpaal; Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono,
and Lod, with the towns thereof:

12. Then Solomon offered burnt offerings unto the LORD on the altar
of the LORD, which he had built before the porch,

13. Beriah also, and Shema, who were
heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove away the
inhabitants of Gath:

13. Even after a
certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of
Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn
feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened
bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.

14. And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,

14. And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, the
courses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their
charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of
every day required: the porters also by their courses at every gate:
for so had David the man of God commanded.

15. And
Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,

15. And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto the
priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the
treasures.

16. And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha,
the sons of Beriah;

16. Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the
foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the
house of the LORD was perfected.

17. And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and
Heber,

17. Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the sea side in
the land of Edom.

18. Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;

18. And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and
servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with the
servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fifty
talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.

19. And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,

20. And Elienai, and Zilthai,
and Eliel,

21. And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of
Shimhi;

22. And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,

23. And Abdon, and
Zichri, and Hanan,

24. And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,

25. And Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;

26. And Shamsherai,
and Shehariah, and Athaliah,

27. And Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri,
the sons of Jeroham.

28. These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chief men.

These dwelt in Jerusalem.

29. And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; whose wife’s name was
Maachah:

30. And his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and
Baal, and Nadab,

31. And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.

32. And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these also dwelt with their
brethren in Jerusalem, over against them.

33. And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan,
and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

34. And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat Micah.

35. And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and
Ahaz.

36. And Ahaz begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and
Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza,

37. And Moza begat Binea:
Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son:

38. And Azel had
six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and
Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.

39. And the sons of Eshek his brother were, Ulam his firstborn,
Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.

40. And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers, and had
many sons, and sons’ sons, an hundred and fifty. All these are of the
sons of Benjamin.