1. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds,
and with every leader.

1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign
over Judah.

1. On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the
people; and therein was found written, that the Ammonite and the
Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever;

1. Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and
understood it.

1. How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt
thou hide thy face from me?

1. A wise son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner
heareth not rebuke.

1. The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

1. Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, and
put it upon thy loins, and put it not in water.

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

1. When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but
when he offended in Baal, he died.

2. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem
good unto you, and that it be of the LORD our God, let us send abroad
unto our brethren every where, that are left in all the land of
Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in
their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:

2. He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between
Abijah and Jeroboam.

2. Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water,
but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: howbeit our
God turned the curse into a blessing.

2. What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto
you.

2. How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my
heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?

2. A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of
the transgressors shall eat violence.

2. Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto
them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.

2. So I got a girdle according to the word of the LORD, and put it
on my loins.

2. Son of man,
prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say thou
unto them that prophesy out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of
the LORD;

2. And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images
of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all
of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that
sacrifice kiss the calves.

3. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we enquired
not at it in the days of Saul.

3. And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of
war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set the
battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men,
being mighty men of valour.

3. Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they
separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.

3. Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with
God.

3. Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I
sleep the sleep of death;

3. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth
wide his lips shall have destruction.

3. I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty
ones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.

3. And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying,

3. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe unto the foolish prophets,
that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!

3. Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud and as the early dew
that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out
of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.

4. And all the congregation said that they would do so: for the
thing was right in the eyes of all the people.

4. And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel;

4. And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of the
chamber of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah:

4. But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value.

4. Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that
trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

4. The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul
of the diligent shall be made fat.

4. The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great
people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered
together: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.

4. Take the girdle that thou hast got, which is upon thy loins, and
arise, go to Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of the rock.

4. O Israel,
thy prophets are like the foxes in the deserts.

4. Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt
know no god but me: for there is no saviour beside me.

5. So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor of Egypt even
unto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God from
Kirjathjearim.

5. Ought
ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over
Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of
salt?

5. And he
had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the
meat offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of
the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given
to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the offerings of
the priests.

5. O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your
wisdom.

5. But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy
salvation.

5. A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and
cometh to shame.

5. They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even the
LORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.

5. So I went, and hid it by Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.

5. Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for
the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD.

5. I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.

6. And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, to
Kirjathjearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of
God the LORD, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is
called on it.

6. Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the
son of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.

6. But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem: for in the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, and
after certain days obtained I leave of the king:

6. Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.

6. I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with
me.

6. Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but
wickedness overthroweth the sinner.

6. Howl ye; for the day of the LORD is at hand; it shall come as a
destruction from the Almighty.

6. And it came to pass after many days, that the LORD said unto me,
Arise, go to Euphrates, and take the girdle from thence, which I
commanded thee to hide there.

6. They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, The LORD
saith: and the LORD hath not sent them: and they have made others to
hope that they would confirm the word.

6. According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were
filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me.

7. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of
Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drave the cart.

7. And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial,
and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstand
them.

7. And I came to
Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah, in
preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.

7. Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?

7. There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is
that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.

7. Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man’s heart shall
melt:

7. Then I went to Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle from
the place where I had hid it: and, behold, the girdle was marred, it
was profitable for nothing.

7. Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a lying
divination, whereas ye say, The LORD saith it; albeit I have not
spoken?

7. Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way
will I observe them:

8. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might,
and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with
timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.

8. And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand
of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are with
you golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

8. And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household
stuff to Tobiah out of the chamber.

8. Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God?

8. The ransom of a man’s life are his riches: but the poor heareth
not rebuke.

8. And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold
of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall
be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.

8. Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

8. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have
spoken vanity, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you,
saith the Lord GOD.

8. I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved
of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I
devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them.

9. And when they came unto the threshingfloor of Chidon, Uzza put
forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.

9. Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,
and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the
nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself
with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them
that are no gods.

9. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thither
brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat
offering and the frankincense.

9. Is it
good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do
ye so mock him?

9. The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked
shall be put out.

9. Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and
fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the
sinners thereof out of it.

9. Thus saith
the LORD, After this manner will I mar the pride of Judah, and the
great pride of Jerusalem.

9. And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that see vanity, and
that divine lies: they shall not be in the assembly of my people,
neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel,
neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall know
that I am the Lord GOD.

9. O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine help.

10. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote
him, because he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.

10. But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken
him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons of
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business:

10. And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been
given them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, were
fled every one to his field.

10. He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly
accept persons.

10. Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is
wisdom.

10. For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not
give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and
the moon shall not cause her light to shine.

10. This evil people, which refuse to hear my words, which walk in
the imagination of their heart, and walk after other gods, to serve
them, and to worship them, shall even be as this girdle, which is good
for nothing.

10. Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying,
Peace; and there was no peace; and one built up a wall, and, lo,
others daubed it with untempered morter:

10. I will be thy king: where is any other that may save thee in all
thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and
princes?

11. And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach
upon Uzza: wherefore that place is called Perezuzza to this day.

11. And they burn
unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and
sweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure
table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn
every evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye have
forsaken him.

11. Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of
God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in their
place.

11. Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall
upon you?

11. Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that
gathereth by labour shall increase.

11. And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for
their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease,
and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.

11. For as the girdle cleaveth to the loins of a man, so have I
caused to cleave unto me the whole house of Israel and the whole house
of Judah, saith the LORD; that they might be unto me for a people, and
for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not
hear.

11. Say unto them which
daub it with untempered morter, that it shall fall: there shall be an
overflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a
stormy wind shall rend it.

11. I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in
my wrath.

12. And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring
the ark of God home to me?

12. And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and his
priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of
Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for ye
shall not prosper.

12. Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine
and the oil unto the treasuries.

12. Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to
bodies of clay.

12. Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh,
it is a tree of life.

12. I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than
the golden wedge of Ophir.

12. Therefore thou shalt speak unto them this word; Thus saith the
LORD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they
shall say unto thee, Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall
be filled with wine?

12. Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you,
Where is the daubing wherewith ye have daubed it?

12. The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.

13. So David brought not the ark home to
himself to the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of
Obededom the Gittite.

13. But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so
they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.

13. And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest,
and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them
was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they were
counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their
brethren.

13. Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on
me what will.

13. Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth
the commandment shall be rewarded.

13. Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove
out of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of
his fierce anger.

13. Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith
the LORD, Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even
the kings that sit upon David’s throne, and the priests, and the
prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.

13. Therefore
thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my
fury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in mine anger, and
great hailstones in my fury to consume it.

13. The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an
unwise son; for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking
forth of children.

14. And the ark of God remained with the family of Obededom in his
house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obededom, and
all that he had.

14. And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and
behind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the
trumpets.

14. Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good
deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the offices
thereof.

14. Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in
mine hand?

14. The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

14. And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man
taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every
one into his own land.

14. And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and
the sons together, saith the LORD: I will not pity, nor spare, nor
have mercy, but destroy them.

14. So will I break down the wall that ye have daubed with
untempered morter, and bring it down to the ground, so that the
foundation thereof shall be discovered, and it shall fall, and ye
shall be consumed in the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I am
the LORD.

14. I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem
them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be
thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.

15. Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah.

15. In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the
sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses; as also wine,
grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into
Jerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day
wherein they sold victuals.

15. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I
will maintain mine own ways before him.

15. Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors
is hard.

15. Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one
that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.

15. Hear ye, and give ear; be not proud: for the LORD hath spoken.

15. Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon them
that have daubed it with untempered morter, and will say unto you, The
wall is no more, neither they that daubed it;

15. Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall
come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his
spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall
spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.

16. And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered
them into their hand.

16. There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, and
all manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children of
Judah, and in Jerusalem.

16. He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come
before him.

16. Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open
his folly.

16. Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes;
their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.

16. Give glory to the LORD your God, before he cause darkness, and
before your feet stumble upon the dark mountains, and, while ye look
for light, he turn it into the shadow of death, and make it gross
darkness.

16. To wit, the
prophets of Israel which prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and which see
visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the Lord GOD.

16. Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her
God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in
pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.

17. And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so
there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

17. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them,
What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day?

17. Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.

17. A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful
ambassador is health.

17. Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not
regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.

17. But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret places
for your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down with tears,
because the LORD’s flock is carried away captive.

17. Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters of
thy people, which prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy thou
against them,

18. Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and
the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD God
of their fathers.

18. Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this
evil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel
by profaning the sabbath.

18. Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be
justified.

18. Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but
he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.

18. Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they
shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not
spare children.

18. Say unto the king and to the queen, Humble yourselves, sit down:
for your principalities shall come down, even the crown of your glory.

18. And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the women
that sew pillows to all armholes, and make kerchiefs upon the head of
every stature to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and
will ye save the souls alive that come unto you?

19. And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him,
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,
and Ephraim with the towns thereof.

19. And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to
be dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut,
and charged that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: and
some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be
brought in on the sabbath day.

19. Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue,
I shall give up the ghost.

19. The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is
abomination to fools to depart from evil.

19. And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’
excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.

19. The cities of the south shall be shut up, and none shall open
them: Judah shall be carried away captive all of it, it shall be
wholly carried away captive.

19. And will ye
pollute me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of
bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to save the souls
alive that should not live, by your lying to my people that hear your
lies?

20. Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of
Abijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.

20. So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without
Jerusalem once or twice.

20. Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from
thee.

20. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of
fools shall be destroyed.

20. It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from
generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;
neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.

20. Lift up your eyes, and behold them that come from the north:
where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?

20. Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against
your pillows, wherewith ye there hunt the souls to make them fly, and
I will tear them from your arms, and will let the souls go, even the
souls that ye hunt to make them fly.

21. But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begat
twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

21. Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge ye
about the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that
time forth came they no more on the sabbath.

21. Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me
afraid.

21. Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be
repayed.

21. But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses
shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and
satyrs shall dance there.

21. What wilt thou say when he shall punish thee? for thou hast taught
them to be captains, and as chief over thee: shall not sorrows take
thee, as a woman in travail?

21. Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of
your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ye
shall know that I am the LORD.

22. And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his
sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.

22. And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves,
and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath
day.

Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to
the greatness of thy mercy.

22. Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer
thou me.

22. A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children:
and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.

22. And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate
houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to
come, and her days shall not be prolonged.

22. And if thou say in thine heart,
Wherefore come these things upon me? For the greatness of thine
iniquity are thy skirts discovered, and thy heels made bare.

22. Because with lies ye have made the heart of the righteous sad,
whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked,
that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life:

23. In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod,
of Ammon, and of Moab:

23. How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my
transgression and my sin.

23. Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is
destroyed for want of judgment.

23. Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do evil.

23. Therefore ye shall see no more vanity, nor divine divinations:
for I will deliver my people out of your hand: and ye shall know that
I am the LORD.

24. And their children spake half in the
speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews’ language, but
according to the language of each people.

24. Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?

24. He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him
chasteneth him betimes.

24. Therefore will I scatter them as the stubble that passeth away
by the wind of the wilderness.

25. And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of
them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying,
Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their
daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.

25. Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue
the dry stubble?

25. The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the
belly of the wicked shall want.

25. This is thy lot, the portion of thy measures from me, saith the
LORD; because thou hast forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.

26. Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among
many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God,
and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did
outlandish women cause to sin.

26. For thou writest bitter things against me, and
makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.

26. Therefore will I discover thy skirts upon thy face, that thy
shame may appear.

27. Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this great evil, to
transgress against our God in marrying strange wives?

27. Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly
unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.

27. I have seen thine adulteries, and thy neighings, the lewdness of
thy whoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woe
unto thee, O Jerusalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall it
once be?

28. And one
of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son in
law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.

28. And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth
eaten.

29. Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the
priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.

30. Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wards
of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business;

31. And
for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits.
Remember me, O my God, for good.




The Book of Esther