1. Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of
cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

1. So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city
of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet ten years.

1. Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.

1. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are
corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth
good.

1. Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it
down with her hands.

1. For the LORD will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose
Israel, and set them in their own land: and the strangers shall be
joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.

1. The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning
the dearth.

1. Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me, and sat before
me.

1. O israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by
thine iniquity.

2. And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over
Israel, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his people
Israel.

2. And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD
his God:

2. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as
a shadow, and continueth not.

2. The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see
if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

2. He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that
is perverse in his ways despiseth him.

2. And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place:
and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD for
servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose
captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.

2. Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish; they are black
unto the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.

2. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously: so will we render the
calves of our lips.

3. And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons
and daughters.

3. For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves:

3. And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me
into judgment with thee?

3. They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy:
there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

3. In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of
the wise shall preserve them.

3. And it shall come to pass in the day that the LORD shall give
thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard
bondage wherein thou wast made to serve,

3. And their nobles have sent their little ones to the waters: they
came to the pits, and found no water; they returned with their vessels
empty; they were ashamed and confounded, and covered their heads.

3. Son of man,
these men have set up their idols in their heart, and put the
stumblingblock of their iniquity before their face: should I be
enquired of at all by them?

3. Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither
will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in
thee the fatherless findeth mercy.

4. Now these are the names of his children which he had in
Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

4. And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.

4. Who can bring a clean thing out of an
unclean? not one.

4. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my
people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

4. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the
strength of the ox.

4. That thou shalt take up
this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the
oppressor ceased! the golden city ceased!

4. Because the ground is chapt, for there was no rain in the earth,
the plowmen were ashamed, they covered their heads.

4. Therefore speak unto them, and say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Every man of the house of Israel
that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock
of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet; I the LORD
will answer him that cometh according to the multitude of his idols;

4. I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine
anger is turned away from him.

5. And Ibhar,
and Elishua, and Elpalet,

5. Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

5. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with
thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;

5. There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of
the righteous.

5. A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter
lies.

5. The LORD hath broken
the staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.

5. Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and forsook it, because
there was no grass.

5. That I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because
they are all estranged from me through their idols.

5. I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and
cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

6. And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

6. And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

6. Turn
from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling,
his day.

6. Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his
refuge.

6. A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is
easy unto him that understandeth.

6. He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that
ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.

6. And the wild asses did stand in the high places, they snuffed up
the wind like dragons; their eyes did fail, because there was no
grass.

6. Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces
from all your abominations.

6. His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive
tree, and his smell as Lebanon.

7. And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

7. Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

7. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.

7. Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the
LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice,
and Israel shall be glad.

7. Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not
in him the lips of knowledge.

7. The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into
singing.

7. O LORD, though our iniquities testify against us, do thou it for
thy name’s sake: for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against
thee.

7. For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that
sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me, and setteth up
his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity
before his face, and cometh to a prophet to enquire of him concerning
me; I the LORD will answer him by myself:

7. They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive
as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the
wine of Lebanon.

8. And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over
all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard
of it, and went out against them.

8. And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields
and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty men of valour.

8. Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock
thereof die in the ground;

8. The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly
of fools is deceit.

8. Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon,
saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.

8. O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble, why
shouldest thou be as a stranger in the land, and as a wayfaring man
that turneth aside to tarry for a night?

8. And I will set my face
against that man, and will make him a sign and a proverb, and I will
cut him off from the midst of my people; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD.

8. Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have
heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is
thy fruit found.

9. And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

9. And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host
of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Mareshah.

9. Yet through the scent of water it will
bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.

9. Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is
favour.

9. Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming:
it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the
earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the
nations.

9. Why shouldest thou be
as a man astonied, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet thou, O LORD,
art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not.

9. And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the
LORD have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand upon
him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.

9. Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just
shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.




Joel

10. And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the
Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD
said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.

10. Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

10. But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost,
and where is he?

10. The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not
intermeddle with his joy.

10. All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become
weak as we? art thou become like unto us?

10. Thus saith the LORD unto this people, Thus have they loved to
wander, they have not refrained their feet, therefore the LORD doth
not accept them; he will now remember their iniquity, and visit their
sins.

10. And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity: the
punishment of the prophet shall be even as the punishment of him that
seeketh unto him;

11. So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. Then
David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the
breaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that place
Baalperazim.

11. And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have
no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail against thee.

11. As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood
decayeth and drieth up:

11. The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle
of the upright shall flourish.

11. Thy pomp is brought
down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spread
under thee, and the worms cover thee.

11. Then said the LORD unto me, Pray not for this people for their
good.

11. That the house of Israel may go no more astray
from me, neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions;
but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the Lord
GOD.

12. And when they had left their gods there, David gave a
commandment, and they were burned with fire.

12. So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
and the Ethiopians fled.

12. So man lieth down, and riseth not: till
the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of
their sleep.

12. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death.

12. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!
how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!

12. When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer
burnt offering and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I will
consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.

12. The word of the LORD came again to me, saying,

13. And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the
valley.

13. And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto
Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and they carried away very much spoil.

13. O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest
keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me
a set time, and remember me!

13. Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that
mirth is heaviness.

13. For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I
will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the
mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north:

13. Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, the prophets say unto them,
Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will
give you assured peace in this place.

13. Son of man,
when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then will
I stretch out mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread
thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it:

14. Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Go
not up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them over
against the mulberry trees.

14. And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there
was exceeding much spoil in them.

14. If a man die, shall he live again?
all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.

14. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a
good man shall be satisfied from himself.

14. I will
ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.

14. Then the LORD said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my
name: I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake
unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and divination, and a
thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart.

14. Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in
it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness,
saith the Lord GOD.

15. And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in the
tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: for
God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

15. They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.

15. Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire
to the work of thine hands.

15. The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh
well to his going.

15. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

15. Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that
prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and
famine shall not be in this land; By sword and famine shall those
prophets be consumed.

15. If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they
spoil it, so that it be desolate, that no man may pass through because
of the beasts:

16. David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote the
host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

16. For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my
sin?

16. A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool
rageth, and is confident.

16. They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider
thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did
shake kingdoms;

16. And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the
streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and they
shall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, nor
their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.

16. Though these three men were in it, as I live,
saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters;
they only shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.

17. And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORD
brought the fear of him upon all nations.

17. My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up
mine iniquity.

17. He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked
devices is hated.

17. That made the world as a wilderness, and
destroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of his
prisoners?

17. Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes run
down with tears night and day, and let them not cease: for the virgin
daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very
grievous blow.

17. Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through
the land; so that I cut off man and beast from it:

18. And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock
is removed out of his place.

18. The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with
knowledge.

18. All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie
in glory, every one in his own house.

18. If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with the
sword! and if I enter into the city, then behold them that are sick
with famine! yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into a
land that they know not.

18. Though these
three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall
deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only shall be delivered
themselves.

19. The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which
grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of
man.

19. The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the
righteous.

19. But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,
and as the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a
sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcase trodden
under feet.

19. Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul lothed Zion? why
hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? we looked for
peace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and behold
trouble!

19. Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my fury
upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast:

20. Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou
changest his countenance, and sendest him away.

20. The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath
many friends.

20. Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast
destroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shall
never be renowned.

20. We acknowledge, O LORD, our wickedness, and the
iniquity of our fathers: for we have sinned against thee.

20. Though Noah,
Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall
deliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their own
souls by their righteousness.

21. His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are
brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.

21. He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy
on the poor, happy is he.

21. Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their
fathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the
face of the world with cities.

21. Do not abhor us, for thy name’s sake, do not disgrace the throne
of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us.

21. For thus saith the Lord GOD; How much more when I send my four
sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the
noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?

22. But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him
shall mourn.

22. Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be
to them that devise good.

22. For I will rise up against them, saith the LORD of hosts, and
cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saith
the LORD.

22. Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can cause
rain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O LORD our
God? therefore we will wait upon thee: for thou hast made all these
things.

22. Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be
brought forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall come forth
unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings: and ye shall be
comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even
concerning all that I have brought upon it.

23. In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth
only to penury.

23. I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of
water: and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the
LORD of hosts.

23. And they shall comfort you, when ye see their ways and their
doings: and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that
I have done in it, saith the Lord GOD.

24. The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of
fools is folly.

24. The LORD of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought,
so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:

25. A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness
speaketh lies.

25. That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains
tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and
his burden depart from off their shoulders.

26. In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children
shall have a place of refuge.

26. This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and
this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.

27. The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

27. For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it?
and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

28. In the multitude of people is the king’s honour: but in the want
of people is the destruction of the prince.

28. In
the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.

29. He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that
is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.

29. Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that
smote thee is broken: for out of the serpent’s root shall come forth a
cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.

30. A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness
of the bones.

30. And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall
lie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall
slay thy remnant.

31. He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that
honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.

31. Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved:
for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone
in his appointed times.

32. The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous
hath hope in his death.

32. What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That
the LORD hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in
it.

33. Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but
that which is in the midst of fools is made known.

34. Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any
people.

35. The king’s favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is
against him that causeth shame.