1. So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the
tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices
and peace offerings before God.

1. In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king of
Israel came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that he
might let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

1. Then Job answered and said,

1. Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.

1. The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the
tongue, is from the LORD.

1. Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to the
wilderness, unto the mount of the daughter of Zion.

1. The word of the LORD came also unto me, saying,

1. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offerings
and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the
LORD.

2. Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the
house of the LORD and of the king’s house, and sent to Benhadad king
of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

2. I have heard many such things:
miserable comforters are ye all.

2. O my soul, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my
goodness extendeth not to thee;

2. All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD
weigheth the spirits.

2. For it shall be, that, as a wandering bird cast out of the nest,
so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.

2. Thou shalt
not take thee a wife, neither shalt thou have sons or daughters in
this place.

2. Son of man,
cause Jerusalem to know her abominations,

3. And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every
one a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

3. There is a league
between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father:
behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

3. Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou
answerest?

3. But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in
whom is all my delight.

3. Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be
established.

3. Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in
the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him that
wandereth.

3. For thus saith the LORD concerning the sons and concerning the
daughters that are born in this place, and concerning their mothers
that bare them, and concerning their fathers that begat them in this
land;

3. And say, Thus saith the
Lord GOD unto Jerusalem; Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of
Canaan; thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite.

4. And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the
ark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God
of Israel:

4. And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.

4. I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my
soul’s stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head
at you.

4. Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god:
their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their
names into my lips.

4. The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked
for the day of evil.

4. Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them
from the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, the
spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.

4. They shall die of grievous deaths; they shall not be
lamented; neither shall they be buried; but they shall be as dung upon
the face of the earth: and they shall be consumed by the sword, and by
famine; and their carcases shall be meat for the fowls of heaven, and
for the beasts of the earth.

4. And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born thy navel was
not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee; thou wast
not salted at all, nor swaddled at all.

5. Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and
Obededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a
sound with cymbals;

5. And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off
building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

5. But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my
lips should asswage your grief.

5. The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou
maintainest my lot.

5. Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD:
though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.

5. And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall sit
upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking
judgment, and hasting righteousness.

5. For thus saith the LORD, Enter not into the house of mourning,
neither go to lament nor bemoan them: for I have taken away my peace
from this people, saith the LORD, even lovingkindness and mercies.

5. None eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to have
compassion upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open field, to the
lothing of thy person, in the day that thou wast born.

6. Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with
trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

6. Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the
stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha was
building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.

6. Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear,
what am I eased?

6. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a
goodly heritage.

6. By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the
LORD men depart from evil.

6. We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud: even of his
haughtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: but his lies shall not be
so.

6. Both the great and the small shall die in this land: they shall
not be buried, neither shall men lament for them, nor cut themselves,
nor make themselves bald for them:

6. And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted in thine own
blood, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live; yea, I said
unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live.

7. Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the
LORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.

7. And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and
said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not
relied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria
escaped out of thine hand.

7. But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made
desolate all my company.

7. I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also
instruct me in the night seasons.

7. When a man’s ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to
be at peace with him.

7. Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for the
foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn; surely they are stricken.

7. Neither shall men tear
themselves for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; neither
shall men give them the cup of consolation to drink for their father
or for their mother.

7. I have caused thee to multiply as the bud of the field, and thou
hast increased and waxen great, and thou art come to excellent
ornaments: thy breasts are fashioned, and thine hair is grown, whereas
thou wast naked and bare.

8. Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known his
deeds among the people.

8. Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very
many chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,
he delivered them into thine hand.

8. And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against
me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.

8. I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right
hand, I shall not be moved.

8. Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without
right.

8. For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah: the
lords of the heathen have broken down the principal plants thereof,
they are come even unto Jazer, they wandered through the wilderness:
her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the sea.

8. Thou shalt not also go into the house of feasting, to sit with
them to eat and to drink.

8. Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time
was the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee, and covered thy
nakedness: yea, I sware unto thee, and entered into a covenant with
thee, saith the Lord GOD, and thou becamest mine.

9. Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous
works.

9. For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole
earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is
perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from
henceforth thou shalt have wars.

9. He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me
with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me.

9. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also
shall rest in hope.

9. A man’s heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps.

9. Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of
Sibmah: I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: for
the shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy harvest is fallen.

9. For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I
will cause to cease out of this place in your eyes, and in your days,
the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride.

9. Then washed I thee with water; yea, I throughly washed away thy
blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil.

10. Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that
seek the LORD.

10. Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;
for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed
some of the people the same time.

10. They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me
upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together
against me.

10. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou
suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

10. A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth
transgresseth not in judgment.

10. And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field;
and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither shall there be
shouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in their presses; I
have made their vintage shouting to cease.

10. And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt shew this people all
these words, and they shall say unto thee, Wherefore hath the LORD
pronounced all this great evil against us? or what is our iniquity? or
what is our sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?

10. I clothed thee also with broidered work, and shod thee with
badgers’ skin, and I girded thee about with fine linen, and I covered
thee with silk.

11. Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually.

11. And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are
written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

11. God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into
the hands of the wicked.

11. Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness
of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.

11. A just weight and balance are the LORD’s: all the weights of the
bag are his work.

11. Wherefore my bowels shall sound like an harp for Moab, and mine
inward parts for Kirharesh.

11. Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers have
forsaken me, saith the LORD, and have walked after other gods, and
have served them, and have worshipped them, and have forsaken me, and
have not kept my law;

11. I decked thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thy
hands, and a chain on thy neck.

12. Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders,
and the judgments of his mouth;

12. And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased
in his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease
he sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.

12. I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken
me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark.

12. It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the
throne is established by righteousness.

12. And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on
the high place, that he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he
shall not prevail.

12. And ye have done worse than your fathers;
for, behold, ye walk every one after the imagination of his evil
heart, that they may not hearken unto me:

12. And I put a jewel on thy forehead, and earrings in thine ears,
and a beautiful crown upon thine head.

13. O ye seed of Israel his servant,
ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

13. And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth
year of his reign.

13. His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins
asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.

13. Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that
speaketh right.

13. This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning Moab since
that time.

13. Therefore will I cast
you out of this land into a land that ye know not, neither ye nor your
fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; where I
will not shew you favour.

13. Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment was
of fine linen, and silk, and broidered work; thou didst eat fine
flour, and honey, and oil: and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thou
didst prosper into a kingdom.

14. He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.

14. And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made for
himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled
with sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by the
apothecaries’ art: and they made a very great burning for him.

14. He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like
a giant.

14. The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man
will pacify it.

14. But now the LORD hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as the
years of an hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, with
all that great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small and
feeble.

14. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shall
no more be said, The LORD liveth, that brought up the children of
Israel out of the land of Egypt;

14. And thy renown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty: for
it was perfect through my comeliness, which I had put upon thee, saith
the Lord GOD.

15. Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he
commanded to a thousand generations;

15. I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the
dust.

15. In the light of the king’s countenance is life; and his favour
is as a cloud of the latter rain.

15. But, The LORD liveth, that
brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from
all the lands whither he had driven them: and I will bring them again
into their land that I gave unto their fathers.

15. But thou didst trust in thine own beauty, and playedst the
harlot because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy fornications on
every one that passed by; his it was.

16. Even of the covenant which
he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;

16. My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of
death;

16. How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get
understanding rather to be chosen than silver!

16. Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and they
shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they
shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of
the holes of the rocks.

16. And of thy garments thou didst take, and deckedst thy high
places with divers colours, and playedst the harlot thereupon: the
like things shall not come, neither shall it be so.

17. And hath
confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an
everlasting covenant,

17. Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is
pure.

17. The highway of
the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth
his soul.

17. For mine eyes are upon all their ways: they are not hid from my
face, neither is their iniquity hid from mine eyes.

17. Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my
silver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of men,
and didst commit whoredom with them,

18. Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of
Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;

18. O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place.

18. Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a
fall.

18. And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double;
because they have defiled my land, they have filled mine inheritance
with the carcases of their detestable and abominable things.

18. And tookest thy broidered
garments, and coveredst them: and thou hast set mine oil and mine
incense before them.

19. When ye were but few, even
a few, and strangers in it.

19. Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on
high.

19. Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to
divide the spoil with the proud.

19. O LORD, my strength, and my fortress, and my refuge in the day
of affliction, the Gentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of the
earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity,
and things wherein there is no profit.

19. My meat also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey,
wherewith I fed thee, thou hast even set it before them for a sweet
savour: and thus it was, saith the Lord GOD.

20. And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom
to another people;

20. My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God.

20. He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso
trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.

20. Shall a man make gods unto himself, and they are no gods?

20. Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters, whom thou
hast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to be
devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter,

21. He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he
reproved kings for their sakes,

21. O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for
his neighbour!

21. The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of
the lips increaseth learning.

21. Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I will cause
them to know mine hand and my might; and they shall know that my name
is The LORD.

21. That thou
hast slain my children, and delivered them to cause them to pass
through the fire for them?

22. Saying, Touch not mine anointed,
and do my prophets no harm.

22. When a few years are come, then I shall go the
way whence I shall not return.

22. Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but
the instruction of fools is folly.

22. And in all thine abominations and
thy whoredoms thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, when
thou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy blood.

23. Sing unto the LORD, all the earth; shew forth from day to day
his salvation.

23. The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to
his lips.

23. And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe unto
thee! saith the LORD GOD;)

24. Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works among
all nations.

24. Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and
health to the bones.

24. That thou hast also built unto thee
an eminent place, and hast made thee an high place in every street.

25. For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised: he also is to
be feared above all gods.

25. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death.

25. Thou hast built thy high place at every head of the way, and
hast made thy beauty to be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to every
one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredoms.

26. For all the gods of the people are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

26. He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth
it of him.

26. Thou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy
neighbours, great of flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, to
provoke me to anger.

27. Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness are
in his place.

27. An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a
burning fire.

27. Behold, therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, and
have diminished thine ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the will
of them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, which are
ashamed of thy lewd way.

28. Give unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.

28. A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief
friends.

28. Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou
wast unsatiable; yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and yet
couldest not be satisfied.

29. Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty of
holiness.

29. A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the
way that is not good.

29. Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land of
Canaan unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not satisfied therewith.

30. Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable,
that it be not moved.

30. He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips
he bringeth evil to pass.

30. How weak is thine heart, saith the LORD GOD, seeing thou doest
all these things, the work of an imperious whorish woman;

31. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men
say among the nations, The LORD reigneth.

31. The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of
righteousness.

31. In
that thou buildest thine eminent place in the head of every way, and
makest thine high place in every street; and hast not been as an
harlot, in that thou scornest hire;

32. Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields
rejoice, and all that is therein.

32. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that
ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.

32. But as a wife that
committeth adultery, which taketh strangers instead of her husband!

33. Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of the
LORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.

33. The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is
of the LORD.

33. They give gifts to all whores: but thou givest thy gifts to all
thy lovers, and hirest them, that they may come unto thee on every
side for thy whoredom.

34. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

34. And the contrary is in thee from other women in thy whoredoms,
whereas none followeth thee to commit whoredoms: and in that thou
givest a reward, and no reward is given unto thee, therefore thou art
contrary.

35. And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us
together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks to
thy holy name, and glory in thy praise.

35. Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD:

36. Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. And all the
people said, Amen, and praised the LORD.

36. Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakedness
discovered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all the
idols of thy abominations, and by the blood of thy children, which
thou didst give unto them;

37. So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD
Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as
every day’s work required:

37. Behold, therefore I will gather all
thy lovers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all them that thou
hast loved, with all them that thou hast hated; I will even gather
them round about against thee, and will discover thy nakedness unto
them, that they may see all thy nakedness.

38. And Obededom with their brethren,
threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to
be porters:

38. And I will judge thee, as women that break wedlock and shed
blood are judged; and I will give thee blood in fury and jealousy.

39. And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests,
before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was at
Gibeon,

39. And I will also give thee into their hand, and they shall throw
down thine eminent place, and shall break down thy high places: they
shall strip thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels,
and leave thee naked and bare.

40. To offer burnt offerings unto the LORD upon the altar of
the burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to do
according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which he
commanded Israel;

40. They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shall
stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swords.

41. And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest
that were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the
LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever;

41. And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and execute
judgments upon thee in the sight of many women: and I will cause thee
to cease from playing the harlot, and thou also shalt give no hire any
more.

42. And with them Heman
and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make a
sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun
were porters.

42. So will I make my fury toward thee to rest, and my jealousy
shall depart from thee, and I will be quiet, and will be no more
angry.

43. And all the people departed every man to his house: and David
returned to bless his house.

43. Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, but hast
fretted me in all these things; behold, therefore I also will
recompense thy way upon thine head, saith the Lord GOD: and thou shalt
not commit this lewdness above all thine abominations.

44. Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this proverb
against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.

45. Thou art thy mother’s daughter, that lotheth her husband and her
children; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which lothed their
husbands and their children: your mother was an Hittite, and your
father an Amorite.

46. And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters that
dwell at thy left hand: and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thy
right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.

47. Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, nor done after their
abominations: but, as if that were a very little thing, thou wast
corrupted more than they in all thy ways.

48. As I live, saith the Lord GOD, Sodom thy sister hath not done,
she nor her daughters, as thou hast done, thou and thy daughters.

49. Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom, pride,
fulness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her
daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.

50. And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me:
therefore I took them away as I saw good.

51. Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy sins; but thou hast
multiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified thy
sisters in all thine abominations which thou hast done.

52. Thou also, which hast judged thy sisters, bear thine own shame
for thy sins that thou hast committed more abominable than they: they
are more righteous than thou: yea, be thou confounded also, and bear
thy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters.

53. When I shall bring again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom
and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters,
then will I bring again the captivity of thy captives in the midst of
them:

54. That thou mayest bear thine own shame, and mayest be
confounded in all that thou hast done, in that thou art a comfort unto
them.

55. When thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their
former estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their
former estate, then thou and thy daughters shall return to your former
estate.

56. For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by thy mouth in the day
of thy pride,

57. Before thy wickedness was discovered, as at the
time of thy reproach of the daughters of Syria, and all that are round
about her, the daughters of the Philistines, which despise thee round
about.

58. Thou hast borne thy lewdness and thine abominations, saith the
LORD.

59. For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even deal with thee as thou
hast done, which hast despised the oath in breaking the covenant.

60. Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with thee in the days
of thy youth, and I will establish unto thee an everlasting covenant.

61. Then thou shalt remember thy ways, and be ashamed, when thou
shalt receive thy sisters, thine elder and thy younger: and I will
give them unto thee for daughters, but not by thy covenant.

62. And I will establish my covenant with thee; and thou shalt know
that I am the LORD:

63. That thou mayest remember, and be
confounded, and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame,
when I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done, saith the
Lord GOD.