1. Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the
children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.

1. And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace
to Jerusalem.

1. Then Job answered and said,

1. The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

1. Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is
perverse in his lips, and is a fool.

1. The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud,
and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at
his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.

1. Thus saith the LORD, Go and get a potter’s earthen bottle, and
take of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of the
priests;

1. Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,

2. And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent
messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of
David came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort
him.

2. And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and
said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and love
them that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the
LORD.

2. How long will ye vex my soul,
and break me in pieces with words?

2. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

2. Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he
that hasteth with his feet sinneth.

2. And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they
shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his
neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.

2. And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, which
is by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that I
shall tell thee,

2. And say, What is thy mother? A lioness: she lay down among lions,
she nourished her whelps among young lions.

3. But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest
thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters
unto thee? are not his servants come unto thee for to search, and to
overthrow, and to spy out the land?

3. Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thou
hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine
heart to seek God.

3. These ten times have ye
reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to
me.

3. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

3. The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth
against the LORD.

3. And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I
will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols,
and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to
the wizards.

3. And say, Hear ye the word of the LORD, O kings
of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem; Thus saith the LORD of hosts,
the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, the
which whosoever heareth, his ears shall tingle.

3. And she brought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, and
it learned to catch the prey; it devoured men.

4. Wherefore Hanun took David’s
servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midst
hard by their buttocks, and sent them away.

4. And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again through
the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them back unto
the LORD God of their fathers.

4. And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with
myself.

4. Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

4. Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his
neighbour.

4. And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord;
and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD of
hosts.

4. Because they have forsaken me, and have estranged this place, and
have burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their
fathers have known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place
with the blood of innocents;

4. The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, and
they brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt.

5. Then there went certain, and told David how the men were served.
And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed. And the
king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then
return.

5. And he set judges in the land throughout all the fenced cities of
Judah, city by city,

5. If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead
against me my reproach:

5. Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race.

5. A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
lies shall not escape.

5. And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be
wasted and dried up.

5. They have built also the high places
of Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto Baal,
which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind:

5. Now when she saw that she had waited, and her hope was lost, then
she took another of her whelps, and made him a young lion.

6. And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves
odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand
talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of
Mesopotamia, and out of Syriamaachah, and out of Zobah.

6. And said to the judges, Take heed what ye
do: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is with you in the
judgment.

6. Know now that God hath overthrown me, and
hath compassed me with his net.

6. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

6. Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a
friend to him that giveth gifts.

6. And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks of
defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall
wither.

6. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that this place
shall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom,
but The valley of slaughter.

6. And he went up and down among the lions, he became a young lion,
and learned to catch the prey, and devoured men.

7. So they hired thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king of
Maachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medeba. And the
children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and
came to battle.

7. Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed and
do it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect of
persons, nor taking of gifts.

7. Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but
there is no judgment.

7. The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

7. All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his
friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are
wanting to him.

7. The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and
every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be
no more.

7. And I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this
place; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their
enemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives: and their
carcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for
the beasts of the earth.

7. And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste their
cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by the
noise of his roaring.

8. And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mighty men.

8. Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and of
the priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel, for the
judgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned to
Jerusalem.

8. He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set
darkness in my paths.

8. The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

8. He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth
understanding shall find good.

8. The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into
the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters
shall languish.

8. And I will make this city desolate, and an hissing; every one
that passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all the
plagues thereof.

8. Then the nations set against him on every side from the
provinces, and spread their net over him: he was taken in their pit.

9. And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
before the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by
themselves in the field.

9. And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the
LORD, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.

9. He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my
head.

9. The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

9. A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
lies shall perish.

9. Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave
networks, shall be confounded.

9. And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the
flesh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of
his friend in the siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, and
they that seek their lives, shall straiten them.

9. And they put him in ward in chains, and brought him to the king
of Babylon: they brought him into holds, that his voice should no more
be heard upon the mountains of Israel.

10. Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and
behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians.

10. And what cause soever shall come to you of your brethren that
dwell in your cities, between blood and blood, between law and
commandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that they
trespass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and upon
your brethren: this do, and ye shall not trespass.

10. He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope
hath he removed like a tree.

10. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold:
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

10. Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to
have rule over princes.

10. And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make
sluices and ponds for fish.

10. Then shalt thou break the bottle in the sight of the men that go
with thee,

10. Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters:
she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters.

11. And the rest of the people he delivered unto the hand of Abishai
his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of
Ammon.

11. And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters
of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house
of Judah, for all the king’s matters: also the Levites shall be
officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with the
good.

11. He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me
unto him as one of his enemies.

11. Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them
there is great reward.

11. The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory
to pass over a transgression.

11. Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise
counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I
am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?

11. And shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of
hosts; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketh
a potter’s vessel, that cannot be made whole again: and they shall
bury them in Tophet, till there be no place to bury.

11. And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them that bare rule,
and her stature was exalted among the thick branches, and she appeared
in her height with the multitude of her branches.

12. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will help thee.

12. His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and
encamp round about my tabernacle.

12. Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret
faults.

12. The king’s wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is
as dew upon the grass.

12. Where are
they? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them
know what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.

12. Thus will I do unto this place, saith the LORD, and to the
inhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet:

12. But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground,
and the east wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods were broken and
withered; the fire consumed them.

13. Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for
our people, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do that
which is good in his sight.

13. He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are
verily estranged from me.

13. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not
have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from the great transgression.

13. A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions
of a wife are a continual dropping.

13. The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are
deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of
the tribes thereof.

13. And the
houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, shall be
defiled as the place of Tophet, because of all the houses upon whose
roofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven, and have
poured out drink offerings unto other gods.

13. And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty
ground.

14. So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before the
Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.

14. My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten
me.

14. Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.

14. House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent
wife is from the LORD.

14. The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof:
and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken
man staggereth in his vomit.

14. Then came Jeremiah from Tophet, whither the LORD had sent him to
prophesy; and he stood in the court of the LORD’s house; and said to
all the people,

14. And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hath
devoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong rod to be a sceptre to
rule. This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.

15. And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,
they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the
city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

15. They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a
stranger: I am an alien in their sight.

15. Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall
suffer hunger.

15. Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or
tail, branch or rush, may do.

15. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;
Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all the
evil that I have pronounced against it, because they have hardened
their necks, that they might not hear my words.

16. And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before
Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were
beyond the river: and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer
went before them.

16. I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him
with my mouth.

16. He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he
that despiseth his ways shall die.

16. In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be
afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of
hosts, which he shaketh over it.

17. And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passed
over Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against
them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians,
they fought with him.

17. My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the
children’s sake of mine own body.

17. He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that
which he hath given will he pay him again.

17. And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one
that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the
counsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it.

18. But the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the
Syrians seven thousand men which fought in chariots, and forty
thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.

18. Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against
me.

18. Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare
for his crying.

18. In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the
language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be
called, The city of destruction.

19. And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the
worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became his
servants: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any
more.

19. All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are
turned against me.

19. A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou
deliver him, yet thou must do it again.

19. In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of
the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD.

20. My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped
with the skin of my teeth.

20. Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise
in thy latter end.

20. And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of
hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD because
of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one,
and he shall deliver them.

21. Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the
hand of God hath touched me.

21. There are many devices in a man’s heart; nevertheless the
counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.

21. And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall
know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea,
they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.

22. Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my
flesh?

22. The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better
than a liar.

22. And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and
they shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them,
and shall heal them.

23. Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were
printed in a book!

23. The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall
abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.

23. In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria,
and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria,
and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.

24. That they were graven with an iron pen and
lead in the rock for ever!

24. A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so
much as bring it to his mouth again.

24. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with
Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land:

25. For I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:

25. Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one
that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.

25. Whom the LORD
of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria
the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.

26. And
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I
see God:

26. He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a
son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.

27. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall
behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.

27. Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from
the words of knowledge.

28. But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the
matter is found in me?

28. An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the
wicked devoureth iniquity.

29. Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath
bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a
judgment.

29. Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of
fools.