1. Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
in Jerusalem one and thirty years.

1. Furthermore Elihu answered and said,

1. I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually
be in my mouth.

1. Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let the
earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things that
come forth of it.

1. The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, when
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms
of the earth of his dominion, and all the people, fought against
Jerusalem, and against all the cities thereof, saying,

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and
walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the
right hand, nor to the left.

2. Hear my words, O ye
wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.

2. My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear
thereof, and be glad.

2. For the indignation of the LORD is upon all nations, and his fury
upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath
delivered them to the slaughter.

2. Thus saith
the LORD, the God of Israel; Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah,
and tell him, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give this city into
the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire:

2. Son of man,
prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say unto them,
Thus saith the Lord GOD unto the shepherds; Woe be to the shepherds of
Israel that do feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed the
flocks?

3. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he
began to seek after the God of David his father: and in the twelfth
year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and
the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images.

3. For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.

3. O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.

3. Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come up
out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with their
blood.

3. And thou shalt not escape out of his hand, but shalt surely be taken,
and delivered into his hand; and thine eyes shall behold the eyes of
the king of Babylon, and he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, and
thou shalt go to Babylon.

3. Ye eat the fat, and ye clothe you with the wool, ye kill
them that are fed: but ye feed not the flock.

4. And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; and the
images, that were on high above them, he cut down; and the groves, and
the carved images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made
dust of them, and strowed it upon the graves of them that had
sacrificed unto them.

4. Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is
good.

4. I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my
fears.

4. And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens
shall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall
down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig from
the fig tree.

4. Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah; Thus
saith the LORD of thee, Thou shalt not die by the sword:

4. The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed
that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken,
neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither have
ye sought that which was lost; but with force and with cruelty have ye
ruled them.

5. And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and
cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.

5. For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my
judgment.

5. They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were
not ashamed.

5. For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come
down upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment.

5. But thou
shalt die in peace: and with the burnings of thy fathers, the former
kings which were before thee, so shall they burn odours for thee; and
they will lament thee, saying, Ah lord! for I have pronounced the
word, saith the LORD.

5. And they were scattered, because there is no shepherd: and they
became meat to all the beasts of the field, when they were scattered.

6. And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon,
even unto Naphtali, with their mattocks round about.

6. Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without
transgression.

6. This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of
all his troubles.

6. The sword of the LORD is filled with blood, it is made fat with
fatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the
kidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great
slaughter in the land of Idumea.

6. Then Jeremiah the prophet spake all these words unto Zedekiah
king of Judah in Jerusalem,

6. My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon every high
hill: yea, my flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, and
none did search or seek after them.

7. And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and had
beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols
throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.

7. What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?

7. The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him,
and delivereth them.

7. And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks with
the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust
made fat with fatness.

7. When the king of Babylon’s army
fought against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that
were left, against Lachish, and against Azekah: for these defenced
cities remained of the cities of Judah.

7. Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the LORD;

8. Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the
land, and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah
the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to
repair the house of the LORD his God.

8. Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with
wicked men.

8. O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that
trusteth in him.

8. For it is the day of the LORD’s vengeance, and the year of
recompences for the controversy of Zion.

8. This is the word that came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, after
that the king Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people which
were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty unto them;

8. As I
live, saith the Lord GOD, surely because my flock became a prey, and
my flock became meat to every beast of the field, because there was no
shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my flock, but the
shepherds fed themselves, and fed not my flock;

9. And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the
money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites that
kept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and
of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and they
returned to Jerusalem.

9. For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should
delight himself with God.

9. O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that
fear him.

9. And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust
thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning
pitch.

9. That every man
should let his manservant, and every man his maidservant, being an
Hebrew or an Hebrewess, go free; that none should serve himself of
them, to wit, of a Jew his brother.

9. Therefore, O ye
shepherds, hear the word of the LORD;

10. And they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the
oversight of the house of the LORD, and they gave it to the workmen
that wrought in the house of the LORD, to repair and amend the house:

10. Therefore hearken unto me ye men of understanding: far be it
from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he
should commit iniquity.

10. The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek
the LORD shall not want any good thing.

10. It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall
go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none
shall pass through it for ever and ever.

10. Now when all the princes, and all the people, which had entered
into the covenant, heard that every one should let his manservant, and
every one his maidservant, go free, that none should serve themselves
of them any more, then they obeyed, and let them go.

10. Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my flock at
their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; neither
shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will deliver my
flock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for them.

11. Even to the artificers and builders gave they it, to buy hewn
stone, and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which the
kings of Judah had destroyed.

11. For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every
man to find according to his ways.

11. Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of
the LORD.

11. But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also
and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the
line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness.

11. But afterward they turned, and caused the servants and the
handmaids, whom they had let go free, to return, and brought them into
subjection for servants and for handmaids.

11. For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, will both search
my sheep, and seek them out.

12. And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them
were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and
Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it
forward; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instruments
of musick.

12. Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty
pervert judgment.

12. What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he
may see good?

12. They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none
shall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing.

12. Therefore the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD,
saying,

12. As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is among
his sheep that are scattered; so will I seek out my sheep, and will
deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the
cloudy and dark day.

13. Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseers
of all that wrought the work in any manner of service: and of the
Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.

13. Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed
the whole world?

13. Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.

13. And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in
the fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, and
a court for owls.

13. Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; I made a
covenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of
the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondmen, saying,

13. And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from
the countries, and will bring them to their own land, and feed them
upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabited
places of the country.

14. And when they brought out the money that was brought into the
house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the
LORD given by Moses.

14. If he set his heart upon man, if he gather
unto himself his spirit and his breath;

14. Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.

14. The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wild
beasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; the
screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of
rest.

14. At the
end of seven years let ye go every man his brother an Hebrew, which
hath been sold unto thee; and when he hath served thee six years, thou
shalt let him go free from thee: but your fathers hearkened not unto
me, neither inclined their ear.

14. I will feed them in a good pasture, and upon the high mountains
of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie in a good fold,
and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.

15. And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have
found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah
delivered the book to Shaphan.

15. All flesh shall perish
together, and man shall turn again unto dust.

15. The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are
open unto their cry.

15. There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and
gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered,
every one with her mate.

15. And ye were now turned, and had done right in my sight, in
proclaiming liberty every man to his neighbour; and ye had made a
covenant before me in the house which is called by my name:

15. I will feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie down, saith
the Lord GOD.

16. And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the king
word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they
do it.

16. If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice
of my words.

16. The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off
the remembrance of them from the earth.

16. Seek ye out of the book of the LORD, and read: no one of these
shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded,
and his spirit it hath gathered them.

16. But
ye turned and polluted my name, and caused every man his servant, and
every man his handmaid, whom ye had set at liberty at their pleasure,
to return, and brought them into subjection, to be unto you for
servants and for handmaids.

16. I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which was
driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will
strengthen that which was sick: but I will destroy the fat and the
strong; I will feed them with judgment.

17. And they have gathered together the money that was found in the
house of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hand of the
overseers, and to the hand of the workmen.

17. Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn
him that is most just?

17. The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out
of all their troubles.

17. And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it
unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever, from generation to
generation shall they dwell therein.

17. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ye have not hearkened unto me, in
proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his
neighbour: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the LORD, to
the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will make you
to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.

17. And as for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I
judge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats.

18. Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the
priest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

18. Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art
wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?

18. The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and
saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.

18. And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant,
which have not performed the words of the covenant which they had made
before me, when they cut the calf in twain, and passed between the
parts thereof,

18. Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the good
pasture, but ye must tread down with your feet the residue of your
pastures? and to have drunk of the deep waters, but ye must foul the
residue with your feet?

19. And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the
law, that he rent his clothes.

19. How much less to him
that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more
than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands.

19. Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD
delivereth him out of them all.

19. The princes of Judah, and the princes of
Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the
land, which passed between the parts of the calf;

19. And as for my flock, they eat that
which ye have trodden with your feet; and they drink that which ye
have fouled with your feet.

20. And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan,
and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a
servant of the king’s, saying,

20. In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at
midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without
hand.

20. He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.

20. I will even
give them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of them
that seek their life: and their dead bodies shall be for meat unto the
fowls of the heaven, and to the beasts of the earth.

20. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD unto them; Behold, I, even I,
will judge between the fat cattle and between the lean cattle.

21. Go, enquire of the LORD for me,
and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the
words of the book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD
that is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the word
of the LORD, to do after all that is written in this book.

21. For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his
goings.

21. Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous
shall be desolate.

21. And Zedekiah king of Judah and his princes will I give into the
hand of their enemies, and into the hand of them that seek their life,
and into the hand of the king of Babylon’s army, which are gone up
from you.

21. Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder, and pushed
all the diseased with your horns, till ye have scattered them abroad;

22. And Hilkiah, and they that the king had appointed, went to
Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath, the son
of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the
college:) and they spake to her to that effect.

22. There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of
iniquity may hide themselves.

22. The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them
that trust in him shall be desolate.

22. Behold, I will command, saith the LORD, and cause them to return
to this city; and they shall fight against it, and take it, and burn
it with fire: and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without
an inhabitant.

22. Therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a
prey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle.

23. And she answered them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell
ye the man that sent you to me,

23. For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should
enter into judgment with God.

23. And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed
them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their
shepherd.

24. Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I
will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof,
even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read
before the king of Judah:

24. He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set
others in their stead.

24. And I the LORD will be their God, and my servant David a prince
among them; I the LORD have spoken it.

25. Because they have forsaken me, and
have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to
anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall be
poured out upon this place, and shall not be quenched.

25. Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the
night, so that they are destroyed.

25. And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause
the evil beasts to cease out of the land: and they shall dwell safely
in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.

26. And as for the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of the
LORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel
concerning the words which thou hast heard;

26. He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;

26. And I will make them and the places round about my hill a
blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in his season;
there shall be showers of blessing.

27. Because thine heart
was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God, when thou
heardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitants
thereof, and humbledst thyself before me, and didst rend thy clothes,
and weep before me; I have even heard thee also, saith the LORD.

27. Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of
his ways:

27. And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth
shall yield her increase, and they shall be safe in their land, and
shall know that I am the LORD, when I have broken the bands of their
yoke, and delivered them out of the hand of those that served
themselves of them.

28. Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be
gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the
evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of
the same. So they brought the king word again.

28. So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto
him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.

28. And they shall no more be a prey to the heathen, neither shall
the beast of the land devour them; but they shall dwell safely, and
none shall make them afraid.

29. Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah
and Jerusalem.

29. When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he
hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a
nation, or against a man only:

29. And I will raise up for them a plant of renown, and they shall
be no more consumed with hunger in the land, neither bear the shame of
the heathen any more.

30. And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men
of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and the
Levites, and all the people, great and small: and he read in their
ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the
house of the LORD.

30. That the hypocrite reign not,
lest the people be ensnared.

30. Thus shall they know that I the LORD their God am with them, and
that they, even the house of Israel, are my people, saith the Lord
GOD.

31. And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before the
LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments, and his
testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his
soul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this
book.

31. Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne
chastisement, I will not offend any more:

31. And ye my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men, and I am your
God, saith the Lord GOD.

32. And he caused all that were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to
stand to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the
covenant of God, the God of their fathers.

32. That which I see not
teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.

33. And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the
countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all that
were present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God. And
all his days they departed not from following the LORD, the God of
their fathers.

33. Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it,
whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore
speak what thou knowest.

34. Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken
unto me.

35. Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without
wisdom.

36. My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his
answers for wicked men.

37. For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands
among us, and multiplieth his words against God.