1. Moreover Josiah kept a passover unto the LORD in Jerusalem: and
they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.

1. Elihu spake moreover, and said,

1. Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight
against them that fight against me.

1. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and
the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.

1. The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD in the days of
Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying,

1. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And he set the priests in their charges, and encouraged them to
the service of the house of the LORD,

2. Thinkest thou this to be
right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God’s?

2. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

2. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and
singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency
of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the LORD, and the
excellency of our God.

2. Go unto the
house of the Rechabites, and speak unto them, and bring them into the
house of the LORD, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to
drink.

2. Son of
man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it,

3. And said unto the Levites
that taught all Israel, which were holy unto the LORD, Put the holy
ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did
build; it shall not be a burden upon your shoulders: serve now the
LORD your God, and his people Israel,

3. For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit
shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?

3. Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that
persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.

3. Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees.

3. Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah,
and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of the
Rechabites;

3. And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O mount Seir, I am
against thee, and I will stretch out mine hand against thee, and I
will make thee most desolate.

4. And prepare yourselves by
the houses of your fathers, after your courses, according to the
writing of David king of Israel, and according to the writing of
Solomon his son.

4. I will answer thee,
and thy companions with thee.

4. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul:
let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.

4. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not:
behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence;
he will come and save you.

4. And I brought them into the house of the LORD, into
the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God,
which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber
of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the door:

4. I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou
shalt know that I am the LORD.

5. And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the
families of the fathers of your brethren the people, and after the
division of the families of the Levites.

5. Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are
higher than thou.

5. Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the
LORD chase them.

5. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the
deaf shall be unstopped.

5. And I set
before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine, and
cups, and I said unto them, Drink ye wine.

5. Because thou hast had a perpetual hatred, and hast shed the blood
of the children of Israel by the force of the sword in the time of
their calamity, in the time that their iniquity had an end:

6. So kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare your
brethren, that they may do according to the word of the LORD by the
hand of Moses.

6. If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy
transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?

6. Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD
persecute them.

6. Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the
dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams
in the desert.

6. But they said, We will drink no wine: for Jonadab the son of
Rechab our father commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine,
neither ye, nor your sons for ever:

6. Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will prepare thee unto
blood, and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated blood,
even blood shall pursue thee.

7. And Josiah gave to the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all
for the passover offerings, for all that were present, to the number
of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of the
king’s substance.

7. If thou
be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine
hand?

7. For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which
without cause they have digged for my soul.

7. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land
springs of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall
be grass with reeds and rushes.

7. Neither shall ye build house,
nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any: but all your days ye
shall dwell in tents; that ye may live many days in the land where ye
be strangers.

7. Thus will I make mount Seir most desolate, and cut off from it
him that passeth out and him that returneth.

8. And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to the priests,
and to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of the
house of God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings two
thousand and six hundred small cattle and three hundred oxen.

8. Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy
righteousness may profit the son of man.

8. Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that
he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.

8. And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called
The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall
be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein.

8. Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab our
father in all that he hath charged us, to drink no wine all our days,
we, our wives, our sons, nor our daughters;

8. And I will fill his mountains with his slain men: in thy hills,
and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall they fall that are
slain with the sword.

9. Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethaneel, his brethren, and
Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave unto the
Levites for passover offerings five thousand small cattle, and five
hundred oxen.

9. By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed
to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty.

9. And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his
salvation.

9. No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up
thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk
there:

9. Nor to build houses
for us to dwell in: neither have we vineyard, nor field, nor seed:

9. I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall not
return: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

10. So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their
place, and the Levites in their courses, according to the king’s
commandment.

10. But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the
night;

10. All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which
deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor
and the needy from him that spoileth him?

10. And the ransomed of the LORD shall return, and come to
Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall
obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.

10. But we have dwelt in tents, and have obeyed, and done according
to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.

10. Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two
countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas the LORD was
there:

11. And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the
blood from their hands, and the Levites flayed them.

11. Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and
maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven?

11. False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that
I knew not.

11. But it came to pass, when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up
into the land, that we said, Come, and let us go to Jerusalem for fear
of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians:
so we dwell at Jerusalem.

11. Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will even do
according to thine anger, and according to thine envy which thou hast
used out of thy hatred against them; and I will make myself known
among them, when I have judged thee.

12. And they removed the burnt offerings, that they might give
according to the divisions of the families of the people, to offer
unto the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they
with the oxen.

12. There they cry, but
none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men.

12. They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.

12. Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

12. And thou shalt know that I am the LORD, and that I have heard
all thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountains of
Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to consume.

13. And they roasted the passover with fire according to the
ordinance: but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and in
caldrons, and in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.

13. Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty
regard it.

13. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I
humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own
bosom.

13. Thus
saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Go and tell the men of
Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will ye not receive
instruction to hearken to my words? saith the LORD.

13. Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against me, and have
multiplied your words against me: I have heard them.

14. And afterward they made ready for themselves, and for the
priests: because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering
of burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites
prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.

14. Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is
before him; therefore trust thou in him.

14. I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I
bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.

14. The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, that he commanded his
sons not to drink wine, are performed; for unto this day they drink
none, but obey their father’s commandment: notwithstanding I have
spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye hearkened not unto
me.

14. Thus saith the Lord GOD; When the whole earth rejoiceth, I will
make thee desolate.

15. And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according
to the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the
king’s seer; and the porters waited at every gate; they might not
depart from their service; for their brethren the Levites prepared for
them.

15. But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet
he knoweth it not in great extremity:

15. But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves
together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me,
and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:

15. I have sent also unto you all my servants the prophets, rising
up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from his
evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve
them, and ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to
your fathers: but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto
me.

15. As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the house of Israel,
because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee: thou shalt be
desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea, even all of it: and they shall
know that I am the LORD.

16. So all the service of the LORD was prepared the same day, to
keep the passover, and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of the
LORD, according to the commandment of king Josiah.

16. Therefore doth Job open
his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge.

16. With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with
their teeth.

16. Because the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have performed the
commandment of their father, which he commanded them; but this people
hath not hearkened unto me:

17. And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover
at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

17. Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their
destructions, my darling from the lions.

17. Therefore thus saith the LORD God of
hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring upon Judah and upon all
the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced
against them: because I have spoken unto them, but they have not
heard; and I have called unto them, but they have not answered.

18. And there was no passover like to that kept in Israel from the
days of Samuel the prophet; neither did all the kings of Israel keep
such a passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and
all Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.

18. I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise
thee among much people.

18. And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith
the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Because ye have obeyed the
commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and
done according unto all that he hath commanded you:

19. In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passover
kept.

19. Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me:
neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.

19. Therefore
thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Jonadab the son of
Rechab shall not want a man to stand before me for ever.

20. After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho king
of Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by Euphrates: and Josiah
went out against him.

20. For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters
against them that are quiet in the land.

21. But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with
thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but
against the house wherewith I have war: for God commanded me to make
haste: forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he
destroy thee not.

21. Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha,
aha, our eye hath seen it.

22. Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but
disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearkened not
unto the words of Necho from the mouth of God, and came to fight in
the valley of Megiddo.

22. This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not
far from me.

23. And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his
servants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.

23. Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause,
my God and my Lord.

24. His servants therefore took him out of that chariot, and put him
in the second chariot that he had; and they brought him to Jerusalem,
and he died, and was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers.
And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.

24. Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let
them not rejoice over me.

25. And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men and
the singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations to this day,
and made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written in
the lamentations.

25. Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let
them not say, We have swallowed him up.

26. Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodness, according
to that which was written in the law of the LORD,

26. Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that
rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour
that magnify themselves against me.

27. And his deeds,
first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of
Israel and Judah.

27. Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous
cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which
hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.

28. And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise
all the day long.