1. The sons of Judah; Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.

1. Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length
thereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits the
height thereof.

1. Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the
children of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God of
Israel;

1. But it came to pass, that when Sanballat heard that we builded the
wall, he was wroth, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.

1. When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai rent his
clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst
of the city, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry;

1. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,

1. Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged
me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.

1. Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know
understanding.

1. So I returned, and considered all
the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of
such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of
their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.

1. Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thou hast
doves’ eyes within thy locks: thy hair is as a flock of goats, that
appear from mount Gilead.

1. And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We
will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be
called by thy name, to take away our reproach.

1. If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith the LORD, return unto me: and
if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight, then shalt
thou not remove.

1. How is the gold become dim! how is the most fine gold changed! the
stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every street.

1. Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee,
and pourtray upon it the city, even Jerusalem:

1. Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all people, nations, and languages,
that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.

1. Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD
hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is
no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.

1. Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that are in the mountain of
Samaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, which say to
their masters, Bring, and let us drink.

1. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry.

1. But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of
the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of the
mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall
flow unto it.

2. And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat
Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.

2. Also he made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round
in compass, and five cubits the height thereof; and a line of thirty
cubits did compass it round about.

2. Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the
fathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek your
God, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of
Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither.

2. And he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria, and
said, What do these feeble Jews? will they fortify themselves? will
they sacrifice? will they make an end in a day? will they revive the
stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned?

2. And came even
before the king’s gate: for none might enter into the king’s gate
clothed with sackcloth.

2. If we assay to
commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself
from speaking?

2. O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how
long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.

2. For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.

2. Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the
living which are yet alive.

2. Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep that are even shorn, which
came up from the washing; whereof every one bear twins, and none is
barren among them.

2. In that day shall the branch of the LORD be beautiful and
glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely for
them that are escaped of Israel.

2. And thou shalt swear, The LORD liveth, in truth, in judgment, and
in righteousness; and the nations shall bless themselves in him, and
in him shall they glory.

2. The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how are they
esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!

2. And lay siege
against it, and build a fort against it, and cast a mount against it;
set the camp also against it, and set battering rams against it round
about.

2. I thought it good to shew the signs and wonders that the high God
hath wrought toward me.

2. By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing
adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood.

2. The Lord GOD hath sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shall
come upon you, that he will take you away with hooks, and your
posterity with fishhooks.

2. And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, was
not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled
before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and
merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of
the evil.

2. And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to
the mountain of the LORD, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law
shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.

3. And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Ishma, and
Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi:

3. And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass it
round about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two rows
of oxen were cast, when it was cast.

3. But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the
fathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to
build an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build unto
the LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath
commanded us.

3. Now
Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they
build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.

3. And in every province, whithersoever the king’s commandment and
his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting,
and weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.

3. Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast
strengthened the weak hands.

3. But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for
himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.

3. For I was my father’s son, tender and only beloved in the sight of
my mother.

3. Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, who
hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.

3. Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet, and thy speech is comely:
thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate within thy locks.

3. And it shall come to pass, that he that is left in Zion, and he
that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even every one that
is written among the living in Jerusalem:

3. For thus saith the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Break
up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.

3. Even the sea monsters draw out the breast, they give suck to their
young ones: the daughter of my people is become cruel, like the
ostriches in the wilderness.

3. Moreover take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of
iron between thee and the city: and set thy face against it, and it
shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This shall be
a sign to the house of Israel.

3. How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his
kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation
to generation.

3. Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth
therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the
fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.

3. And ye shall go out at the breaches, every cow at that which is
before her; and ye shall cast them into the palace, saith the LORD.

3. Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for
it is better for me to die than to live.

3. And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations
afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their
spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any more.

4. And Penuel
the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons
of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.

4. It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and
three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,
and all their hinder parts were inward.

4. Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of
Judah, and troubled them in building,

4. Hear, O our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upon
their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity:

4. So Esther’s maids and her chamberlains came and told it her. Then
was the queen exceedingly grieved; and she sent raiment to clothe
Mordecai, and to take away his sackcloth from him: but he received it
not.

4. Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast
strengthened the feeble knees.

4. Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your
bed, and be still. Selah.

4. He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my
words: keep my commandments, and live.

4. Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for
this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and
vexation of spirit.

4. Thy neck is like the tower of David builded for an armoury,
whereon there hang a thousand bucklers, all shields of mighty men.

4. When the Lord shall have
washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged
the blood of Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit of
judgment, and by the spirit of burning.

4. Circumcise yourselves to the LORD, and take away the foreskins of
your heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: lest my fury
come forth like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the
evil of your doings.

4. The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth
for thirst: the young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto
them.

4. Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the
house of Israel upon it: according to the number of the days that thou
shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their iniquity.

4. I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house, and flourishing in my
palace:

4. Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people are as
they that strive with the priest.

4. Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgression;
and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after three
years:

4. Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry?

4. But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig
tree; and none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of the LORD of
hosts hath spoken it.

5. And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.

5. And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of it
like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it
received and held three thousand baths.

5. And hired counsellors
against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king
of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

5. And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out
from before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before the
builders.

5. Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the king’s chamberlains,
whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandment
to Mordecai, to know what it was, and why it was.

5. But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee,
and thou art troubled.

5. Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the
LORD.

5. Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from
the words of my mouth.

5. The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.

5. Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins, which feed
among the lilies.

5. And the LORD will create upon every dwelling place of mount Zion,
and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of
a flaming fire by night: for upon all the glory shall be a defence.

5. Declare ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, Blow ye
the trumpet in the land: cry, gather together, and say, Assemble
yourselves, and let us go into the defenced cities.

5. They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets: they
that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.

5. For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, according
to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days: so shalt
thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.

5. I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon
my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.

5. Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall
fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother.

5. And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and
proclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you, O ye
children of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.

5. So Jonah
went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there
made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see
what would become of the city.

5. For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, and we
will walk in the name of the LORD our God for ever and ever.

6. And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and
Haahashtari.

These were the sons of Naarah.

6. He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five
on the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for the
burnt offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to
wash in.

6. And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign,
wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and
Jerusalem.

6. So built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto
the half thereof: for the people had a mind to work.

6. So Hatach went forth to Mordecai unto the street of the city,
which was before the king’s gate.

6. Is not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the
uprightness of thy ways?

6. There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou
up the light of thy countenance upon us.

6. Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she
shall keep thee.

6. Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with
travail and vexation of spirit.

6. Until the day break, and the shadows flee away, I will get me to
the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of frankincense.

6. And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time from
the heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert from storm and
from rain.

6. Set up the standard toward Zion: retire, stay not: for I will
bring evil from the north, and a great destruction.

6. For the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is
greater than the punishment of the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown
as in a moment, and no hands stayed on her.

6. And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side,
and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: I
have appointed thee each day for a year.

6. Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon
before me, that they might make known unto me the interpretation of
the dream.

6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast
rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no
priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will
also forget thy children.

6. And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,
and want of bread in all your places: yet have ye not returned unto
me, saith the LORD.

6. And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over
Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from
his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd.

6. In that day, saith the LORD, will I assemble her that halteth, and
I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have afflicted;

7. And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.

7. And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and
set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.

7. And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel,
and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; and
the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, and
interpreted in the Syrian tongue.

7. But it came to pass, that when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the
Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites, heard that the walls
of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped,
then they were very wroth,

7. And Mordecai told him of all that had happened unto him, and of
the sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king’s
treasuries for the Jews, to destroy them.

7. Remember, I pray thee, who ever
perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off?

7. Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that
their corn and their wine increased.

7. Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all
thy getting get understanding.

7. Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.

7. Thou art all fair, my love; there is no spot in thee.

7. The lion is come up from his thicket, and the destroyer of the
Gentiles is on his way; he is gone forth from his place to make thy
land desolate; and thy cities shall be laid waste, without an
inhabitant.

7. Her Nazarites were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk,
they were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was of
sapphire:

7. Therefore thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem,
and thine arm shall be uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it.

7. Then came in the magicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and
the soothsayers: and I told the dream before them; but they did not
make known unto me the interpretation thereof.

7. As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will
I change their glory into shame.

7. And also I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet
three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city,
and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained
upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered.

7. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it
smote the gourd that it withered.

7. And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast
far off a strong nation: and the LORD shall reign over them in mount
Zion from henceforth, even for ever.

8. And Coz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the
son of Harum.

8. He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on
the right side, and five on the left. And he made an hundred basons of
gold.

8. Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter
against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort:

8. And conspired all of them together to
come and to fight against Jerusalem, and to hinder it.

8. Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was
given at Shushan to destroy them, to shew it unto Esther, and to
declare it unto her, and to charge her that she should go in unto the
king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him
for her people.

8. Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap
the same.

8. I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only
makest me dwell in safety.

8. Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to
honour, when thou dost embrace her.

8. There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath
neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour;
neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom
do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it
is a sore travail.

8. Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, with me from Lebanon: look
from the top of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon, from the
lions’ dens, from the mountains of the leopards.

8. For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and howl: for the fierce
anger of the LORD is not turned back from us.

8. Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known
in the streets: their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it
is become like a stick.

8. And, behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn
thee from one side to another, till thou hast ended the days of thy
siege.

8. But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was
Belteshazzar, according to the name of my God, and in whom is the
spirit of the holy gods: and before him I told the dream, saying,

8. They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on
their iniquity.

8. So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; but
they were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the
LORD.

8. And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a
vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he
fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, It is better for me
to die than to live.

8. And thou, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the daughter of
Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion; the kingdom
shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem.

9. And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren: and his mother
called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow.

9. Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court,
and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.

9. Then wrote
Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their
companions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the
Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the
Dehavites, and the Elamites,

9. Nevertheless we made our prayer unto our God, and set a watch
against them day and night, because of them.

9. And Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.

9. By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils
are they consumed.

9. She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of
glory shall she deliver to thee.

9. Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their
labour.

9. Thou hast ravished my heart, my sister, my spouse; thou hast
ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, with one chain of thy neck.

9. And it shall come to pass at that day, saith the LORD, that the
heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the
priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.

9. They that be slain with the sword are better than they that be
slain with hunger: for these pine away, stricken through for want of
the fruits of the field.

9. Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and
lentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, and
make thee bread thereof, according to the number of the days that thou
shalt lie upon thy side, three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat
thereof.

9. O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the
spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tell
me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretation
thereof.

9. And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish
them for their ways, and reward them their doings.

9. I have smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens and
your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the
palmerworm devoured them: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the
LORD.

9. And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd?
And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death.

9. Now why dost thou cry out aloud? is there no king in thee? is thy
counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman in travail.

10. And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou
wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand
might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it
may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested.

10. And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over
against the south.

10. And the rest of the nations whom the
great and noble Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities of
Samaria, and the rest that are on this side the river, and at such a
time.

10. And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is
decayed, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build
the wall.

10. Again Esther spake unto Hatach, and gave him commandment unto
Mordecai;

10. The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and
the teeth of the young lions, are broken.

10. Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life
shall be many.

10. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him
that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.

10. How fair is thy love, my sister, my spouse! how much better is
thy love than wine! and the smell of thine ointments than all spices!

10. Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! surely thou hast greatly deceived this
people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas the sword
reacheth unto the soul.

10. The hands of the pitiful women have sodden their own children:
they were their meat in the destruction of the daughter of my people.

10. And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty
shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it.

10. Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed; I saw, and behold a
tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great.

10. For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit
whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take
heed to the LORD.

10. I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt:
your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away your
horses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto your
nostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

10. Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the
which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow; which came up in
a night, and perished in a night:

10. Be in pain, and labour to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a
woman in travail: for now shalt thou go forth out of the city, and
thou shalt dwell in the field, and thou shalt go even to Babylon;
there shalt thou be delivered; there the LORD shall redeem thee from
the hand of thine enemies.

11. And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father
of Eshton.

11. And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basons. And
Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the
house of God;

11. This is the copy of the letter that they sent unto him, even unto
Artaxerxes the king; Thy servants the men on this side the river, and
at such a time.

11. And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, till
we come in the midst among them, and slay them, and cause the work to
cease.

11. All the king’s servants, and the people of the king’s
provinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come
unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one
law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall
hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live: but I have not been
called to come in unto the king these thirty days.

11. The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion’s
whelps are scattered abroad.

11. I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right
paths.

11. Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one
be warm alone?

11. Thy lips, O my spouse, drop as the honeycomb: honey and milk are
under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments is like the smell of
Lebanon.

11. At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, A
dry wind of the high places in the wilderness toward the daughter of
my people, not to fan, nor to cleanse,

11. The LORD hath accomplished his fury; he hath poured out his
fierce anger, and hath kindled a fire in Zion, and it hath devoured
the foundations thereof.

11. Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth part of an hin:
from time to time shalt thou drink.

11. The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached
unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth:

11. Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart.

11. I have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and
Gomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet
have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

11. And should not I spare Nineveh,
that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that
cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also
much cattle?




Micah

11. Now also many nations are gathered against thee, that say, Let
her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion.

12. And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father
of Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah.

12. To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the
chapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two
wreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on the
top of the pillars;

12. Be it known unto the king, that the Jews which came up from thee
to us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the bad
city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations.

12. And it came to pass, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came,
they said unto us ten times, From all places whence ye shall return
unto us they will be upon you.

12. And they told to Mordecai Esther’s words.

12. Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a
little thereof.

12. When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou
runnest, thou shalt not stumble.

12. And if one prevail against him, two shall
withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.

12. A garden inclosed is my sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a
fountain sealed.

12. Even a full wind from
those places shall come unto me: now also will I give sentence against
them.

12. The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world,
would not have believed that the adversary and the enemy should have
entered into the gates of Jerusalem.

12. And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it
with dung that cometh out of man, in their sight.

12. The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it
was meat for all: the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and the
fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fed
of it.

12. My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth
unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused them to err, and
they have gone a whoring from under their God.

12. Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and because I will
do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.

12. But they know not the thoughts of the LORD, neither understand
they his counsel: for he shall gather them as the sheaves into the
floor.

13. And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of
Othniel; Hathath.

13. And four hundred pomegranates on the two
wreaths; two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two
pommels of the chapiters which were upon the pillars.

13. Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be builded, and
the walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, and
custom, and so thou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.

13. Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the
higher places, I even set the people after their families with their
swords, their spears, and their bows.

13. Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself
that thou shalt escape in the king’s house, more than all the Jews.

13. In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep
falleth on men,

13. Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she
is thy life.

13. Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king,
who will no more be admonished.

13. Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates, with pleasant fruits;
camphire, with spikenard,

13. Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as
a whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for we
are spoiled.

13. For the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests,
that have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her,

13. And the LORD said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat
their defiled bread among the Gentiles, whither I will drive them.

13. I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a
watcher and an holy one came down from heaven;

13. They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense
upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow
thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and
your spouses shall commit adultery.

13. For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind,
and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning
darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The LORD,
The God of hosts, is his name.

13. Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion: for I will make thine horn
iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass: and thou shalt beat in pieces
many people: and I will consecrate their gain unto the LORD, and their
substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.

14. And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the father of
the valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen.

14. He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases;

14. Now because we have maintenance from the king’s palace, and it
was not meet for us to see the king’s dishonour, therefore have we
sent and certified the king;

14. And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to the
rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them:
remember the LORD, which is great and terrible, and fight for your
brethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.

14. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall
there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another
place; but thou and thy father’s house shall be destroyed: and who
knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?

14. Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all
my bones to shake.

14. Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of
evil men.

14. For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is
born in his kingdom becometh poor.

14. Spikenard and saffron; calamus and
cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; myrrh and aloes, with all
the chief spices:

14. O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayest
be saved. How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee?

14. They
have wandered as blind men in the streets, they have polluted
themselves with blood, so that men could not touch their garments.

14. Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! behold, my soul hath not been polluted:
for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which
dieth of itself, or is torn in pieces; neither came there abominable
flesh into my mouth.

14. He cried aloud,
and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off his branches, shake off
his leaves, and scatter his fruit: let the beasts get away from under
it, and the fowls from his branches:

14. I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor
your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated
with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people
that doth not understand shall fall.

15. And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam:
and the sons of Elah, even Kenaz.

15. One
sea, and twelve oxen under it.

15. That search may be made in the book
of the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in the book of the
records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful
unto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the
same of old time: for which cause was this city destroyed.

15. And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was known
unto us, and God had brought their counsel to nought, that we returned
all of us to the wall, every one unto his work.

15. Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer,

15. Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood
up:

15. Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.

15. I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the
second child that shall stand up in his stead.

15. A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters,
and streams from Lebanon.

15. For a voice declareth from Dan, and publisheth affliction from mount
Ephraim.

15. They cried unto them, Depart ye; it is unclean; depart, depart,
touch not: when they fled away and wandered, they said among the
heathen, They shall no more sojourn there.

15. Then he said unto me, Lo, I have given thee cow’s dung for man’s
dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith.

15. Nevertheless leave the stump
of his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the
tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven,
and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth:

15. Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend;
and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear,
The LORD liveth.

16. And the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.

16. The pots also, and the shovels, and the fleshhooks, and all their
instruments, did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the house
of the LORD of bright brass.

16. We certify the king that, if this city be builded again, and the
walls thereof set up, by this means thou shalt have no portion on this
side the river.

16. And it came to pass from that time forth, that the half of my
servants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both the
spears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons; and the rulers
were behind all the house of Judah.

16. Go,
gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye
for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also and
my maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king,
which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish.

16. It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an
image was before mine eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice,
saying,

16. For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their
sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.

16. There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been
before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him.
Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.

16. Awake, O north wind; and come, thou south; blow upon my garden,
that the spices thereof may flow out. Let my beloved come into his
garden, and eat his pleasant fruits.

16. Make ye mention to the nations; behold, publish against
Jerusalem, that watchers come from a far country, and give out their
voice against the cities of Judah.

16. The anger of the LORD hath divided them; he will no more regard
them: they respected not the persons of the priests, they favoured not
the elders.

16. Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break the
staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and
with care; and they shall drink water by measure, and with
astonishment:

16. Let his heart be changed from man’s, and let a beast’s heart be given
unto him; and let seven times pass over him.

16. For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD
will feed them as a lamb in a large place.

17. And the sons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and
Jalon: and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of
Eshtemoa.

17. In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth and Zeredathah.

17. Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum the chancellor, and to
Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions that dwell in
Samaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peace, and at such a
time.

17. They which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, with
those that laded, every one with one of his hands wrought in the work,
and with the other hand held a weapon.

17. So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther
had commanded him.

17. Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be
more pure than his maker?

17. For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of
violence.

17. As keepers of a field, are they against her round about; because
she hath been rebellious against me, saith the LORD.

17. As for us, our eyes as yet failed for our vain help: in our
watching we have watched for a nation that could not save us.

17. That they may want bread and water, and be astonied
one with another, and consume away for their iniquity.

17. This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by
the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that
the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to
whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.

17. Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.

18. And his wife Jehudijah bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber
the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are
the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.

18. Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for the
weight of the brass could not be found out.

18. The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainly read before
me.

18. For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, and
so builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.

18. Behold, he put no trust in his
servants; and his angels he charged with folly:

18. But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth
more and more unto the perfect day.

18. Thy way and thy doings have procured these things unto thee; this
is thy wickedness, because it is bitter, because it reacheth unto
thine heart.

18. They hunt our steps, that we cannot go in our streets: our end is
near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come.

18. This dream I king Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, O
Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all the
wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the
interpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods is
in thee.

18. Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually:
her rulers with shame do love, Give ye.

19. And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father
of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.

19. And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God,
the golden altar also, and the tables whereon the shewbread was set;

19. And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is found that
this city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and that
rebellion and sedition have been made therein.

19. And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of
the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the
wall, one far from another.

19. How much less in
them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust,
which are crushed before the moth?

19. The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they
stumble.

19. My bowels, my bowels! I am pained at my very heart; my heart
maketh a noise in me; I cannot hold my peace, because thou hast heard,
O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.

19. Our persecutors are swifter than the eagles of the heaven: they
pursued us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the
wilderness.

19. Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonied for one
hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spake, and said,
Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation thereof,
trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream be to
them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thine enemies.

19. The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be
ashamed because of their sacrifices.

20. And the sons of Shimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and
Tilon.

And the sons of Ishi were, Zoheth, and Benzoheth.

20. Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that they should burn
after the manner before the oracle, of pure gold;

20. There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, which have
ruled over all countries beyond the river; and toll, tribute, and
custom, was paid unto them.

20. In what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort
ye thither unto us: our God shall fight for us.

20. They are destroyed from
morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding it.

20. My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.

20. Destruction upon destruction is cried; for the whole land is
spoiled: suddenly are my tents spoiled, and my curtains in a moment.

20. The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, was taken
in their pits, of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among
the heathen.

20. The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose
height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all the
earth;

21. The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah,
and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of
them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea,

21. And the
flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and that
perfect gold;

21. Give ye now commandment to cause these men to cease, and that
this city be not builded, until another commandment shall be given
from me.

21. So we laboured in the work: and half of them held the spears from
the rising of the morning till the stars appeared.

21. Doth not their excellency which is in them go away? they die,
even without wisdom.

21. Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of
thine heart.

21. How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of the
trumpet?

21. Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the
land of Uz; the cup also shall pass through unto thee: thou shalt be
drunken, and shalt make thyself naked.

21. Whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in
it was meat for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and
upon whose branches the fowls of the heaven had their habitation:

22. And Jokim,
and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in
Moab, and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things.

22. And the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons,
and the censers, of pure gold: and the entry of the house, the inner
doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house of
the temple, were of gold.

22. Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: why should damage grow
to the hurt of the kings?

22. Likewise at the same time said I unto the people, Let every one
with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be
a guard to us, and labour on the day.

22. For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all
their flesh.

22. For my people is foolish, they have not known me; they
are sottish children, and they have none understanding: they are wise
to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.

22. The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of
Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity: he will visit
thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will discover thy sins.

22. It is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong: for thy
greatness is grown, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy dominion to the
end of the earth.

23. These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plants and
hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his work.

23. Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes’
letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their
companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and made
them to cease by force and power.

23. So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of
the guard which followed me, none of us put off our clothes, saving
that every one put them off for washing.

23. Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues
of life.

23. I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was without form, and void; and
the heavens, and they had no light.

23. And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming down
from heaven, and saying, Hew the tree down, and destroy it; yet leave
the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron
and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with
the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the
field, till seven times pass over him;

24. The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and
Shaul:

24. Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem.
So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of
Persia.

24. Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far
from thee.

24. I beheld the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills
moved lightly.

24. This is the
interpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the most High, which
is come upon my lord the king:

25. Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.

25. Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight
before thee.

25. I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the
heavens were fled.

25. That they shall drive thee from
men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and they
shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the
dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou know
that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to
whomsoever he will.

26. And the sons of Mishma; Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei
his son.

26. Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.

26. I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all
the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of the LORD, and
by his fierce anger.

26. And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots;
thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have known
that the heavens do rule.

27. And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters: but his brethren
had not many children, neither did all their family multiply, like to
the children of Judah.

27. Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from
evil.

27. For thus hath the LORD said, The whole land shall be desolate;
yet will I not make a full end.

27. Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and
break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewing
mercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.

28. And they dwelt at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,

28. For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black;
because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will not repent,
neither will I turn back from it.

28. All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar.

29. And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,

29. The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and
bowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the rocks:
every city shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.

29. At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the
kingdom of Babylon.

30. And at Bethuel, and at
Hormah, and at Ziklag,

30. And when thou art spoiled, what wilt thou do? Though thou
clothest thyself with crimson, though thou deckest thee with ornaments
of gold, though thou rentest thy face with painting, in vain shalt
thou make thyself fair; thy lovers will despise thee, they will seek
thy life.

30. The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have
built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for
the honour of my majesty?

31. And at Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusim, and
at Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reign
of David.

31. For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, and the
anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice of
the daughter of Zion, that bewaileth herself, that spreadeth her
hands, saying, Woe is me now! for my soul is wearied because of
murderers.

31. While the word was in the king’s
mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar,
to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from thee.

32. And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and
Ashan, five cities:

32. And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be
with the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass as
oxen, and seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the
most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he
will.

33. And all their villages that were round about
the same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and their
genealogy.

33. The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he
was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet
with the dew of heaven, till his hairs were grown like eagles’
feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws.

34. And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,

34. And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes
unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed
the most High, and I praised and honoured him that liveth for ever,
whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from
generation to generation:

35. And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of
Asiel,

35. And all the inhabitants of the earth
are reputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the army
of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay
his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?

36. And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah,
and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,

36. At the same time my
reason returned unto me; and for the glory of my kingdom, mine honour
and brightness returned unto me; and my counsellors and my lords
sought unto me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent
majesty was added unto me.

37. And Ziza the son of Shiphi,
the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of
Shemaiah;

37. Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honour the King of
heaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment: and those
that walk in pride he is able to abase.

38. These mentioned by their names were princes in their
families: and the house of their fathers increased greatly.

39. And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side
of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.

40. And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and
quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old.

41. And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of
Judah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found
there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their
rooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks.

42. And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men,
went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah,
and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.

43. And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, and
dwelt there unto this day.