1. Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the
firstborn; but forasmuch as he defiled his father’s bed, his
birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: and
the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.

1. Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was
finished: and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father
had dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments,
put he among the treasures of the house of God.

1. Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of
Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the
name of the God of Israel, even unto them.

1. And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against
their brethren the Jews.

1. Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal
apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king’s house, over
against the king’s house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in
the royal house, over against the gate of the house.

1. Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of
the saints wilt thou turn?

1. Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

1. My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my
understanding:

1. Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more
ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider
not that they do evil.

1. I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my
myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have
drunk my wine with my milk: eat, O friends; drink, yea, drink
abundantly, O beloved.

1. Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching
his vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill:

1. Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now,
and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man,
if there be any that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I
will pardon it.

1. Remember, O LORD, what is come upon us: consider, and behold our
reproach.

1. And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a
barber’s razor, and cause it to pass upon thine head and upon thy
beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and divide the hair.

1. Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords,
and drank wine before the thousand.

1. Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give
ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye
have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.

1. Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation,
O house of Israel.

1. Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops: he hath laid
siege against us: they shall smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon
the cheek.

2. For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief
ruler; but the birthright was Joseph’s:)

2. Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of
the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto
Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the
city of David, which is Zion.

2. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son
of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem:
and with them were the prophets of God helping them.

2. For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters, are
many: therefore we take up corn for them, that we may eat, and live.

2. And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the
court, that she obtained favour in his sight: and the king held out to
Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near,
and touched the top of the sceptre.

2. For wrath killeth the foolish man, and
envy slayeth the silly one.

2. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto
thee will I pray.

2. That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy
lips may keep knowledge.

2. Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to
utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth:
therefore let thy words be few.

2. I sleep, but my heart waketh: it is the voice of my beloved that
knocketh, saying, Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my
undefiled: for my head is filled with dew, and my locks with the drops
of the night.

2. And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted
it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and
also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring
forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

2. And though they say, The LORD liveth; surely they swear falsely.

2. Our inheritance is turned to strangers, our houses to aliens.

2. Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city,
when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and thou shalt take a third
part, and smite about it with a knife: and a third part thou shalt
scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them.

2. Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the
golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken
out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and his
princes, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.

2. And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have
been a rebuker of them all.

2. The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is
forsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up.

2. But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the
thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that
is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth have been from of old,
from everlasting.

3. The sons, I say, of
Reuben the firstborn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and
Carmi.

3. Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king
in the feast which was in the seventh month.

3. At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus unto
them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this
wall?

3. Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands,
vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the dearth.

3. Then said the king unto her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? and
what is thy request? it shall be even given thee to the half of the
kingdom.

3. I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his
habitation.

3. My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning
will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

3. For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her
mouth is smoother than oil:

3. For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool’s
voice is known by multitude of words.

3. I have put off my coat; how shall I put it on? I have washed my
feet; how shall I defile them?

3. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I
pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.

3. O LORD, are not thine eyes upon the truth? thou hast stricken
them, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, but they
have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder
than a rock; they have refused to return.

3. We are orphans and fatherless, our mothers are as widows.

3. Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thy
skirts.

3. Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the
temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and
his princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.

3. I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim,
thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.

3. For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out by a thousand
shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an hundred shall
leave ten, to the house of Israel.

3. Therefore will he give them up, until the time that she which
travaileth hath brought forth: then the remnant of his brethren shall
return unto the children of Israel.

4. The sons of Joel; Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,

4. And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up the
ark.

4. Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the
names of the men that make this building?

4. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king’s
tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.

4. And Esther answered, If it seem good unto the king, let the king
and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.

4. His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the
gate, neither is there any to deliver them.

4. For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither
shall evil dwell with thee.

4. But her end is bitter as wormwood,
sharp as a two-edged sword.

4. When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath
no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.

4. My beloved put in his hand by the
hole of the door, and my bowels were moved for him.

4. What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not
done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth
grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?

4. Therefore I said, Surely these are poor; they are foolish: for
they know not the way of the LORD, nor the judgment of their God.

4. We have drunken our water for money; our wood is sold unto us.

4. Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire,
and burn them in the fire; for thereof shall a fire come forth into
all the house of Israel.

4. They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of
brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

4. They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the
spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known
the LORD.

4. For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and
ye shall live:

4. And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD, in the
majesty of the name of the LORD his God; and they shall abide: for now
shall he be great unto the ends of the earth.

5. Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son,

5. And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of the
congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle,
these did the priests and the Levites bring up.

5. But the eye of their
God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to
cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer
by letter concerning this matter.

5. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as
their children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our
daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto
bondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for other
men have our lands and vineyards.

5. Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that he may do as
Esther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet that
Esther had prepared.

5. Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the
thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.

5. The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers
of iniquity.

5. Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.

5. Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest
vow and not pay.

5. I rose up to open to my beloved; and my hands dropped with myrrh,
and my fingers with sweet smelling myrrh, upon the handles of the
lock.

5. And now go to; I will tell
you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof,
and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wall thereof, and it
shall be trodden down:

5. I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; for
they have known the way of the LORD, and the judgment of their God:
but these have altogether broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.

5. Our necks are under persecution: we labour, and have no rest.

5. Thus saith the Lord GOD; This is Jerusalem: I have set it in the
midst of the nations and countries that are round about her.

5. In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote
over against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the
king’s palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.

5. And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall
Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with
them.

5. But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and
pass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and
Bethel shall come to nought.

5. And this man shall be the peace, when the Assyrian shall come into
our land: and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise
against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.

6. Beerah his son,
whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was
prince of the Reubenites.

6. Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were
assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which
could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

6. The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and his companions the Apharsachites, which
were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king:

6. And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.

6. And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, What is thy
petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even
to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.

6. Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth
trouble spring out of the ground;

6. Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor
the bloody and deceitful man.

6. Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are
moveable, that thou canst not know them.

6. Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou
before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry
at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?

6. I opened to my beloved; but my beloved had withdrawn himself, and
was gone: my soul failed when he spake: I sought him, but I could not
find him; I called him, but he gave me no answer.

6. And I will lay it waste: it shall not be
pruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will
also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

6. Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of
the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their
cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces:
because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings are
increased.

6. We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the Assyrians, to
be satisfied with bread.

6. And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than the
nations, and my statutes more than the countries that are round about
her: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not
walked in them.

6. Then the king’s countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled
him, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote
one against another.

6. They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the
LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from
them.

6. Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in
the house of Joseph, and devour it, and there be none to quench it in
Bethel.

6. And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the
land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof: thus shall he deliver us from
the Assyrian, when he cometh into our land, and when he treadeth
within our borders.

7. And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their
generations was reckoned, were the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,

7. And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD
unto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy place,
even under the wings of the cherubims:

7. They sent
a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all
peace.

7. Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and the
rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother.
And I set a great assembly against them.

7. Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is;

7. Yet man is born unto trouble, as
the sparks fly upward.

7. But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy
mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

7. Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the
words of my mouth.

7. For in the
multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but
fear thou God.

7. The watchmen that went about the city found me, they smote me,
they wounded me; the keepers of the walls took away my veil from me.

7. For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and
the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but
behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.

7. How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken me,
and sworn by them that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full,
they then committed adultery, and assembled themselves by troops in
the harlots’ houses.

7. Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their
iniquities.

7. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye multiplied more than
the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in my
statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done according
to the judgments of the nations that are round about you;

7. The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans,
and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men of
Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me the
interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a
chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the
kingdom.

7. They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have
begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their
portions.

7. Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness in
the earth,

7. And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a
dew from the LORD, as the showers upon the grass, that tarrieth not
for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men.

8. And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt
in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon:

8. For the cherubims spread
forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered
the ark and the staves thereof above.

8. Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of
Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great
stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on,
and prospereth in their hands.

8. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our
brethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen; and will ye even
sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they
their peace, and found nothing to answer.

8. If I have found favour in the sight of the king, and if it please the
king to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king and
Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do
to morrow as the king hath said.

8. I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause:

8. Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies;
make thy way straight before my face.

8. Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her
house:

8. If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting
of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for
he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than
they.

8. I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if ye find my beloved,
that ye tell him, that I am sick of love.

8. Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field,
till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of
the earth!

8. They were as fed horses in the morning: every one neighed after
his neighbour’s wife.

8. Servants have ruled over us: there is none that doth deliver us
out of their hand.

8. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, am against thee,
and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of the
nations.

8. Then came in all the king’s wise men: but they could not read the
writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.

8. Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud
at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin.

8. Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and
turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark
with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them
out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name:

8. And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the Gentiles in the midst
of many people as a lion among the beasts of the forest, as a young
lion among the flocks of sheep: who, if he go through, both treadeth
down, and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver.

9. And eastward he inhabited
unto the entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates:
because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.

9. And they drew out the staves of the ark, that the ends of the
staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not
seen without. And there it is unto this day.

9. Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded
you to build this house, and to make up these walls?

9. Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk in
the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our
enemies?

9. Then went Haman forth that day joyful and with a glad heart: but
when Haman saw Mordecai in the king’s gate, that he stood not up, nor
moved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai.

9. Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without
number:

9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is
very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with
their tongue.

9. Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto
the cruel:

9. Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is
served by the field.

9. What is thy beloved more than another beloved, O thou fairest
among women? what is thy beloved more than another beloved, that thou
dost so charge us?

9. In mine ears said the LORD of hosts, Of a truth many
houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant.

9. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: and shall not
my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

9. We gat our bread with the peril of our lives because of the sword
of the wilderness.

9. And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto I
will not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations.

9. Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was
changed in him, and his lords were astonied.

9. Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes
of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.

9. That
strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled
shall come against the fortress.

9. Thine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all
thine enemies shall be cut off.

10. And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who
fell by their hand: and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the
east land of Gilead.

10. There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put
therein at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of
Israel, when they came out of Egypt.

10. We asked
their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of
the men that were the chief of them.

10. I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might
exact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.

10. Nevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, he
sent and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.

10. Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon
the fields:

10. Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels;
cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have
rebelled against thee.

10. Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy
labours be in the house of a stranger;

10. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he
that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.

10. My beloved is white and ruddy, the chiefest
among ten thousand.

10. Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of
an homer shall yield an ephah.

10. Go ye up upon her
walls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away her
battlements; for they are not the LORD’s.

10. Our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine.

10. Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee,
and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in
thee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds.

10. Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords
came into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king,
live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy
countenance be changed:

10. The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound:
therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.

10. They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that
speaketh uprightly.

10. And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that I
will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy
thy chariots:

11. And the children of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of
Bashan unto Salcah:

11. And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy
place: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, and did
not then wait by course:

11. And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of
the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded
these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.

11. Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their
vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth part
of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of
them.

11. And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the multitude
of his children, and all the things wherein the king had promoted him,
and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the
king.

11. To set up on high those that be low; that those which
mourn may be exalted to safety.

11. But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them
ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that
love thy name be joyful in thee.

11. And thou mourn at the
last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed,

11. When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what
good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with
their eyes?

11. His head is as the most fine gold, his locks are bushy, and black
as a raven.

11. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may
follow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflame
them!

11. For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very
treacherously against me, saith the LORD.

11. They ravished the women in Zion, and the maids in the cities of
Judah.

11. Wherefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thou
hast defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all
thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee; neither shall
mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity.

11. There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is
the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and
understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in
him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy
father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and
soothsayers;

11. Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly
walked after the commandment.

11. Forasmuch therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye
take from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone,
but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards,
but ye shall not drink wine of them.

11. And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and
throw down all thy strong holds:

12. Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, and
Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.

12. Also the Levites which were the singers,
all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their
brethren, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries
and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them an
hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:)

12. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto
wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the
people away into Babylon.

12. Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of
them; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, and
took an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise.

12. Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in
with the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and
to morrow am I invited unto her also with the king.

12. He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands
cannot perform their enterprise.

12. For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou
compass him as with a shield.

12. And say, How have
I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;

12. The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he
eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him
to sleep.

12. His eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters, washed
with milk, and fitly set.

12. And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and
wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the LORD,
neither consider the operation of his hands.

12. They have belied the LORD, and said, It is not he; neither shall
evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine:

12. Princes are hanged up by their hand: the faces of elders were not
honoured.

12. A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with
famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part
shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third
part into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them.

12. Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and
understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences,
and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king
named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the
interpretation.

12. Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of
Judah as rottenness.

12. For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins:
they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor
in the gate from their right.

12. And I will cut off witchcrafts
out of thine hand; and thou shalt have no more soothsayers:

13. And their brethren of the house of their fathers were, Michael,
and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber,
seven.

13. It came even
to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound
to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they lifted up
their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick,
and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth
for ever: that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house
of the LORD;

13. But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king
Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God.

13. Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from
his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even
thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,
Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did according to this
promise.

13. Yet all this availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai the
Jew sitting at the king’s gate.

13. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of
the froward is carried headlong.

13. And have not
obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that
instructed me!

13. There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely,
riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.

13. His cheeks are as a bed of spices, as sweet flowers: his lips
like lilies, dropping sweet smelling myrrh.

13. Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they have no
knowledge: and their honourable men are famished, and their multitude
dried up with thirst.

13. And the
prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall it
be done unto them.

13. They took the young men to grind, and the children fell under the
wood.

13. Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury
to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know that I
the LORD have spoken it in my zeal, when I have accomplished my fury
in them.

13. Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spake
and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children
of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of
Jewry?

13. When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went
Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal
you, nor cure you of your wound.

13. Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it is
an evil time.

13. Thy
graven images also will I cut off, and thy standing images out of the
midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thine hands.

14. These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of
Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai,
the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;

14. So that the priests could not stand to minister by
reason of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of
God.

14. And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God,
which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and
brought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take
out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose
name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;

14. Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor
in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and my
brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor.

14. Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a
gallows be made of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto
the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go thou in merrily
with the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman; and he
caused the gallows to be made.

14. They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday
as in the night.

14. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the
congregation and assembly.

14. But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son,
and there is nothing in his hand.

14. His hands are as gold rings set with the beryl: his belly is as
bright ivory overlaid with sapphires.

14. Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth
without measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp,
and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.

14. Wherefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, Because ye speak this
word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and this people
wood, and it shall devour them.

14. The elders have ceased from the gate, the young men from their
musick.

14. Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the nations
that are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by.

14. I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is
in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is
found in thee.

14. For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the
house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away,
and none shall rescue him.

14. Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the
God of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken.

14. And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee: so will
I destroy thy cities.

15. Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son
of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.

15. And said unto
him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in
Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place.

15. But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable
unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside forty
shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people:
but so did not I, because of the fear of God.

15. But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from
the hand of the mighty.

15. Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of
thine own well.

15. As he came forth of his mother’s womb, naked shall he return to
go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may
carry away in his hand.

15. His legs are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold:
his countenance is as Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.

15. And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall
be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled:

15. Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel,
saith the LORD: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient nation, a
nation whose language thou knowest not, neither understandest what
they say.

15. The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance is turned into
mourning.

15. So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an
astonishment unto the nations that are round about thee, when I shall
execute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes.
I the LORD have spoken it.

15. And now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought in
before me, that they should read this writing, and make known unto me
the interpretation thereof: but they could not shew the interpretation
of the thing:

15. I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their
offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me
early.

15. Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the
gate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto the
remnant of Joseph.

15. And I will execute vengeance in anger and fury upon the heathen,
such as they have not heard.

16. And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all
the suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders.

16. Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the
house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now
hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished.

16. Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we
any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work.

16. So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.

16. Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in
the streets.

16. And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so
shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?

16. His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my
beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.

16. But the
LORD of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall
be sanctified in righteousness.

16. Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all mighty men.

16. The crown is fallen from our head: woe unto us, that we have
sinned!

16. When I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which
shall be for their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you:
and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff of
bread:

16. And I have heard of thee, that thou canst make
interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read the
writing, and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt
be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and
shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom.

16. Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD, saith thus;
Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall say in all the
highways, Alas! alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning,
and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.

17. All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king
of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.

17. Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search
made in the king’s treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether
it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house
of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us
concerning this matter.

17. Moreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jews
and rulers, beside those that came unto us from among the heathen that
are about us.

17. Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise
not thou the chastening of the Almighty:

17. Let them be only thine own, and not strangers’ with thee.

17. All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow
and wrath with his sickness.

17. Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste
places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.

17. And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, which thy
sons and thy daughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks and
thine herds: they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shall
impoverish thy fenced cities, wherein thou trustedst, with the sword.

17. For this our heart is faint; for these things our eyes
are dim.

17. So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they
shall bereave thee: and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee;
and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have spoken it.

17. Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let thy gifts be
to thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read the
writing unto the king, and make known to him the interpretation.

17. And in all vineyards shall be wailing: for I will pass through
thee, saith the LORD.

18. The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and half the tribe of
Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to
shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four and forty thousand seven
hundred and threescore, that went out to the war.

18. Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six
choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days
store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this required not I the bread
of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people.

18. For he maketh sore, and
bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.

18. Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy
youth.

18. Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to
eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he
taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him:
for it is his portion.

18. Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as
it were with a cart rope:

18. Nevertheless in those days, saith the LORD, I will not make a
full end with you.

18. Because of the mountain of Zion, which is desolate, the foxes
walk upon it.

18. O thou king, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a
kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honour:

18. Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end is it
for you? the day of the LORD is darkness, and not light.

19. And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish,
and Nodab.

19. Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I have
done for this people.

19. He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall
no evil touch thee.

19. Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts
satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.

19. Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath
given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to
rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God.

19. That say, Let him make speed, and
hasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Holy
One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it!

19. And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the
LORD our God all these things unto us? then shalt thou answer them,
Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strange gods in your land, so
shall ye serve strangers in a land that is not yours.

19. Thou, O LORD, remainest for ever; thy throne from generation to
generation.

19. And for the majesty
that he gave him, all people, nations, and languages, trembled and
feared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom he would he kept
alive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put down.

19. As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went
into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit
him.

20. And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were
delivered into their hand, and all that were with them: for they cried
to God in the battle, and he was intreated of them; because they put
their trust in him.

20. In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the
power of the sword.

20. And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and
embrace the bosom of a stranger?

20. For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God
answereth him in the joy of his heart.

20. Woe unto
them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light,
and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for
bitter!

20. Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah,
saying,

20. Wherefore dost thou forget us for ever, and forsake us so long
time?

20. But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride,
he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from
him:

20. Shall not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? even
very dark, and no brightness in it?

21. And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand,
and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two
thousand, and of men an hundred thousand.

21. Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt
thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.

21. For the ways of man are before
the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.

21. Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, and
prudent in their own sight!

21. Hear now this, O foolish people, and without
understanding; which have eyes, and see not; which have ears, and hear
not:

21. Turn thou us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be turned;
renew our days as of old.

21. And he was driven from the sons of men; and his heart was
made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses: they
fed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of
heaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom of
men, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.

21. I hate, I despise your feast
days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.

22. For there fell down many slain, because the war was of God. And
they dwelt in their steads until the captivity.

22. At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be
afraid of the beasts of the earth.

22. His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be
holden with the cords of his sins.

22. Woe unto them that are mighty to
drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink:

22. Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will ye not tremble at my
presence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by a
perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof
toss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet can
they not pass over it?

22. But thou hast utterly rejected us; thou art very wroth against us.




The Book of the Prophet Ezekiel

22. And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart,
though thou knewest all this;

22. Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, I
will not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offerings of
your fat beasts.

23. And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land:
they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and unto mount
Hermon.

23. For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the
beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.

23. He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his
folly he shall go astray.

23. Which
justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the
righteous from him!

23. But this people hath a revolting and a
rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone.

23. But hast lifted up thyself against
the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house
before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines,
have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and
gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor
know: and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thy
ways, hast thou not glorified:

23. Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not
hear the melody of thy viols.

24. And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, even
Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah,
and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, and heads of the house
of their fathers.

24. And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and
thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.

24. Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble,
and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be as
rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have
cast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despised the word of the
Holy One of Israel.

24. Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the LORD our
God, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season:
he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest.

24. Then was the part of the hand sent
from him; and this writing was written.

24. But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a
mighty stream.

25. And they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went
a whoring after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed
before them.

25. Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine
offspring as the grass of the earth.

25. Therefore is the anger of the LORD kindled against his people,
and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten
them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in the
midst of the streets.

For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched
out still.

25. Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have
withholden good things from you.

25. And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL,
UPHARSIN.

25. Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in the
wilderness forty years, O house of Israel?

26. And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of
Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria, and he
carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half
tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara,
and to the river Gozan, unto this day.

26. Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of
corn cometh in in his season.

26. And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will
hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall come
with speed swiftly:

26. For among my people are found wicked men: they lay wait, as he
that setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men.

26. This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numbered
thy kingdom, and finished it.

26. But ye have borne the
tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god,
which ye made to yourselves.

27. Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it
for thy good.

27. None shall be weary nor stumble among them;
none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins
be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:

27. As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit:
therefore they are become great, and waxen rich.

27. TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.

27. Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,
saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.

28. Whose arrows
are sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses’ hoofs shall be
counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind:

28. They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of
the wicked: they judge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet
they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge.

28. PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and
Persians.

29. Their
roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea,
they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it away
safe, and none shall deliver it.

29. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: shall not my
soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

29. Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet,
and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation
concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.

30. And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of
the sea: and if one look unto the land, behold darkness and sorrow,
and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

30. A wonderful and
horrible thing is committed in the land;

30. In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.

31. The prophets prophesy
falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love
to have it so: and what will ye do in the end thereof?

31. And Darius the Median took the kingdom, being about threescore
and two years old.