1. Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.

1. The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath
anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to
bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and
the opening of the prison to them that are bound;

2. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is
overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.

2. To proclaim the
acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of our God; to
comfort all that mourn;

3. For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the
enemy.

3. To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion,
to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the
garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be
called trees of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he might
be glorified.

4. I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the
covert of thy wings. Selah.

4. And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the
former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the
desolations of many generations.

5. For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the
heritage of those that fear thy name.

5. And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of
the alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.

6. Thou wilt prolong the king’s life: and his years as many
generations.

6. But ye shall be named the Priests of the LORD: men shall call you
the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and
in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.

7. He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth,
which may preserve him.

7. For your shame ye shall have double; and for confusion they shall
rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess
the double: everlasting joy shall be unto them.

8. So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily
perform my vows.

8. For I the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering;
and I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting
covenant with them.

9. And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their
offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them,
that they are the seed which the LORD hath blessed.

10. I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall be joyful in
my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath
covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh
himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her
jewels.

11. For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden
causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord
GOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the
nations.