1. Now Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and
Aharah the third,

1. And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon
had built the house of the LORD, and his own house,

1. These are now the chief of their fathers, and this is the
genealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of
Artaxerxes the king.

1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into
the street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto Ezra
the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD had
commanded to Israel.

1. On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman the
Jews’ enemy unto Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king;
for Esther had told what he was unto her.

1. Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

1. O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who
hast set thy glory above the heavens.

1. Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?

1. Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a
thing? a man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of
his face shall be changed.

1. O that thou wert as my brother, that sucked the breasts of my
mother! when I should find thee without, I would kiss thee; yea, I
should not be despised.

1. Moreover the LORD said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and write
in it with a man’s pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz.

1. At that time, saith the LORD, they shall bring out the bones of
the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the
priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves:

1. And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, in the
fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and the elders of
Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.

1. In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision
appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which appeared unto
me at the first.

1. Set the trumpet to thy mouth. He shall come as an eagle against
the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and
trespassed against my law.

1. Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and behold a basket of
summer fruit.

2. Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.

2. That the
cities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, and
caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

2. Of the sons of Phinehas; Gershom: of the sons of Ithamar; Daniel:
of the sons of David; Hattush.

2. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation both
of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the
first day of the seventh month.

2. And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and
gave it unto Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of
Haman.

2. How long wilt thou
speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like
a strong wind?

2. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained
strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy
and the avenger.

2. She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of
the paths.

2. I counsel thee to keep the king’s commandment, and that in regard
of the oath of God.

2. I would lead thee, and bring thee into my mother’s house, who
would instruct me: I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine of the
juice of my pomegranate.

2. And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest,
and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.

2. And they shall
spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the host of heaven,
whom they have loved, and whom they have served, and after whom they
have walked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped:
they shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung upon
the face of the earth.

2. Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: from
the appearance of his loins even downward, fire; and from his loins
even upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.

2. And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I was
at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw
in a vision, and I was by the river of Ulai.

2. Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee.

2. And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A basket of summer
fruit. Then said the LORD unto me, The end is come upon my people of
Israel; I will not again pass by them any more.

3. And the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,

3. And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed against it.

3. Of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh; Zechariah: and
with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males an hundred and fifty.

3. And he read therein before the street that was before the water
gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and
those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were
attentive unto the book of the law.

3. And Esther spake yet again before the king, and fell down at his
feet, and besought him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman
the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.

3. Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty
pervert justice?

3. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and
the stars, which thou hast ordained;

3. She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming
in at the doors.

3. Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing;
for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.

3. His left hand should be under my head, and his right hand should
embrace me.

3. And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son.

Then said the LORD to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz.

3. And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of
them that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the places
whither I have driven them, saith the LORD of hosts.

3. And he put forth the form of an hand, and took me by a lock of
mine head; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the
heaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door
of the inner gate that looketh toward the north; where was the seat of
the image of jealousy, which provoketh to jealousy.

3. Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood
before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were
high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.

3. Israel hath cast off the thing that is good: the enemy shall
pursue him.

3. And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day, saith
the Lord GOD: there shall be many dead bodies in every place; they
shall cast them forth with silence.

4. And
Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,

4. And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities,
which he built in Hamath.

4. Of the sons of Pahathmoab; Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with
him two hundred males.

4. And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had
made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and
Anaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and
on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and
Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.

4. Then the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Esther
arose, and stood before the king,

4. If thy children have sinned against him, and he
have cast them away for their transgression;

4. What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man,
that thou visitest him?

4. Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.

4. Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say unto
him, What doest thou?

4. I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not up, nor
awake my love, until he please.

4. For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and
my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be
taken away before the king of Assyria.

4. Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; Shall they
fall, and not arise? shall he turn away, and not return?

4. And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according
to the vision that I saw in the plain.

4. I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so
that no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any that
could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and
became great.

4. They have set up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and
I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them
idols, that they may be cut off.

4. Hear this, O ye that swallow up the needy, even to make the poor
of the land to fail,

5. And Gera, and Shephuphan, and
Huram.

5. Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron the nether,
fenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars;

5. Of the sons of Shechaniah; the son of Jahaziel, and with him three
hundred males.

5. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he
was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood
up:

5. And said, If it please the king,
and if I have favour in his sight, and the thing seem right before the
king, and I be pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the
letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he
wrote to destroy the Jews which are in all the king’s provinces:

5. If thou wouldest seek
unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty;

5. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with glory and honour.

5. O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an
understanding heart.

5. Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no
evil thing: and a wise man’s heart discerneth both time and judgment.

5. Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her
beloved? I raised thee up under the apple tree: there thy mother
brought thee forth: there she brought thee forth that bare thee.

5. The LORD spake also unto me again, saying,

5. Why then
is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding?
they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return.

5. Then said he unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now the way
toward the north. So I lifted up mine eyes the way toward the north,
and behold northward at the gate of the altar this image of jealousy
in the entry.

5. And as I was considering, behold, an he goat came from the west on
the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat
had a notable horn between his eyes.

5. Thy calf, O Samaria, hath cast thee off; mine anger is kindled
against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency?

5. Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that
we may sell corn? and the sabbath, that we may set forth wheat, making
the ephah small, and the shekel great, and falsifying the balances by
deceit?

6. And these are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of the fathers
of the inhabitants of Geba, and they removed them to Manahath:

6. And Baalath, and all
the store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the
cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in
Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of his
dominion.

6. Of the sons also of Adin; Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him
fifty males.

6. And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people
answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands: and they bowed
their heads, and worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground.

6. For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come unto my people?
or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?

6. If
thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and
make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous.

6. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou
hast put all things under his feet:

6. Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my
lips shall be right things.

6. Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the
misery of man is great upon him.

6. Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for
love is strong as death; jealousy is cruel as the grave: the coals
thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement flame.

6. Forasmuch as this
people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in
Rezin and Remaliah’s son;

6. I hearkened and heard, but they spake not aright: no man repented
him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turned to
his course, as the horse rusheth into the battle.

6. He said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest thou what they do?
even the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth here,
that I should go far off from my sanctuary? but turn thee yet again,
and thou shalt see greater abominations.

6. And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seen
standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power.

6. For from Israel was it also: the workman made it; therefore it is not
God: but the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.

6. That we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a
pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?

7. And
Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he removed them, and begat Uzza, and
Ahihud.

7. As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and the
Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites,
which were not of Israel,

7. And of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with
him seventy males.

7. Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai,
Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the
Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood
in their place.

7. Then
the king Ahasuerus said unto Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew,
Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have
hanged upon the gallows, because he laid his hand upon the Jews.

7. Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly
increase.

7. All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;

7. For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination
to my lips.

7. For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him when
it shall be?

7. Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it:
if a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would
utterly be contemned.

7. Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth
up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, even the king
of Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all his
channels, and go over all his banks:

7. Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times; and the
turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming;
but my people know not the judgment of the LORD.

7. And he brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked,
behold a hole in the wall.

7. And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with
choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: and
there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast him
down to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none that
could deliver the ram out of his hand.

7. For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: it
hath no stalk; the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, the
strangers shall swallow it up.

7. The LORD
hath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never forget any
of their works.

8. And Shaharaim begat children in the country of Moab, after he had
sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.

8. But of their children, who were left
after them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, them
did Solomon make to pay tribute until this day.

8. And of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah the son of Michael, and
with him fourscore males.

8. So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave
the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.

8. Write ye also for the Jews, as it liketh you, in the king’s name,
and seal it with the king’s ring: for the writing which is written in
the king’s name, and sealed with the king’s ring, may no man reverse.

8. For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself
to the search of their fathers:

8. The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever
passeth through the paths of the seas.

8. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing
froward or perverse in them.

8. There is no man that hath power over the spirit to
retain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: and
there is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliver
those that are given to it.

8. We have a little sister, and she hath no breasts: what shall we do
for our sister in the day when she shall be spoken for?

8. And he shall pass through
Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the neck;
and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy
land, O Immanuel.

8. How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us?
Lo, certainly in vain made he it; the pen of the scribes is in vain.

8. Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall: and when I
had digged in the wall, behold a door.

8. Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong,
the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones toward
the four winds of heaven.

8. Israel is swallowed up: now shall they be among the Gentiles as a
vessel wherein is no pleasure.

8. Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that
dwelleth therein? and it shall rise up wholly as a flood; and it shall
be cast out and drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.

9. And he begat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and
Malcham,

9. But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for his
work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and
captains of his chariots and horsemen.

9. Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him two
hundred and eighteen males.

9. And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the
scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the
people, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor weep.
For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.

9. Then were the king’s scribes called at that time in the third
month, that is, the month Sivan, on the three and twentieth day
thereof; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded
unto the Jews, and to the lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers of
the provinces which are from India unto Ethiopia, an hundred twenty
and seven provinces, unto every province according to the writing
thereof, and unto every people after their language, and to the Jews
according to their writing, and according to their language.

9. (For we are but of yesterday, and
know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:)

9. O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!

9. They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them
that find knowledge.

9. All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is
done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man ruleth over
another to his own hurt.

9. If she be
a wall, we will build upon her a palace of silver: and if she be a
door, we will inclose her with boards of cedar.

9. Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in
pieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye
shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in
pieces.

9. The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, they
have rejected the word of the LORD; and what wisdom is in them?

9. And he said unto me, Go in, and behold the wicked abominations
that they do here.

9. And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed
exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the
pleasant land.

9. For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by himself:
Ephraim hath hired lovers.

9. And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord GOD, that I
will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in
the clear day:

10. And Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons,
heads of the fathers.

10. And these were the chief of king Solomon’s officers, even two
hundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.

10. And of the sons of Shelomith; the son of Josiphiah, and with him
an hundred and threescore males.

10. Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the
sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: for
this day is holy unto our LORD: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of
the LORD is your strength.

10. And he wrote in the king Ahasuerus’ name, and sealed it with the
king’s ring, and sent letters by posts on horseback, and riders on
mules, camels, and young dromedaries:

10. Shall
not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their
heart?

10. Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than
choice gold.

10. And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the
place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had
so done: this is also vanity.

10. I am a wall, and my breasts like towers: then was I in his eyes
as one that found favour.

10. Take counsel together, and it shall come to nought; speak the
word, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.

10. Therefore will I give their wives unto others, and their fields to
them that shall inherit them: for every one from the least even unto
the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto the
priest every one dealeth falsely.

10. So I went in and saw; and behold every form of creeping things,
and abominable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel,
pourtrayed upon the wall round about.

10. And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it cast down
some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon
them.

10. Yea, though they have hired among the nations, now will I gather
them, and they shall sorrow a little for the burden of the king of
princes.

10. And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all
your songs into lamentation; and I will bring up sackcloth upon all
loins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as the
mourning of an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day.

11. And of Hushim he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.

11. And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of
David unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wife
shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the
places are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.

11. And of the sons of Bebai; Zechariah the son of Bebai, and with
him twenty and eight males.

11. So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace,
for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved.

11. Wherein the king granted
the Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, and
to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay and to cause to perish,
all the power of the people and province that would assault them, both
little ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a prey,

11. Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow
without water?

11. For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be
desired are not to be compared to it.

11. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily,
therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do
evil.

11. Solomon had a vineyard at Baalhamon; he let out the vineyard unto
keepers; every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand
pieces of silver.

11. For the LORD spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed
me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying,

11. For they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people
slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.

11. And there stood before them seventy men of the ancients of the
house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of
Shaphan, with every man his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of
incense went up.

11. Yea, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by
him the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of the sanctuary
was cast down.

11. Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sin, altars shall be
unto him to sin.

11. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord GOD, that I will send a
famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but
of hearing the words of the LORD:

12. The sons of Elpaal; Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono,
and Lod, with the towns thereof:

12. Then Solomon offered burnt offerings unto the LORD on the altar
of the LORD, which he had built before the porch,

12. And of the sons of Azgad; Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with
him an hundred and ten males.

12. And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to
send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood
the words that were declared unto them.

12. Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon the
thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.

12. Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut
down, it withereth before any other herb.

12. I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty
inventions.

12. Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his days be
prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear
God, which fear before him:

12. My vineyard, which is mine, is before me: thou, O Solomon, must
have a thousand, and those that keep the fruit thereof two hundred.

12. Say
ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A
confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.

12. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they
were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall
they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they
shall be cast down, saith the LORD.

12. Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what the
ancients of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the
chambers of his imagery? for they say, the LORD seeth us not; the LORD
hath forsaken the earth.

12. And an host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason
of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and it
practised, and prospered.

12. I have written to him the great things of my law, but they were
counted as a strange thing.

12. And they shall wander from sea
to sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run to and fro
to seek the word of the LORD, and shall not find it.

13. Beriah also, and Shema, who were
heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove away the
inhabitants of Gath:

13. Even after a
certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of
Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn
feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened
bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.

13. And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are these,
Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them threescore males.

13. And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the
fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the
scribe, even to understand the words of the law.

13. The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every
province was published unto all people, and that the Jews should be
ready against that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.

13. So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite’s hope
shall perish:

13. The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and
the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.

13. But it shall not be well with the
wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow;
because he feareth not before God.

13. Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions hearken to thy
voice: cause me to hear it.

13. Sanctify the LORD of hosts himself; and let him be your fear, and
let him be your dread.

13. I will surely consume them, saith the LORD: there shall be no
grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade;
and the things that I have given them shall pass away from them.

13. He said also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see
greater abominations that they do.

13. Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that
certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the
daily sacrifice, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the
sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?

13. They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings, and
eat it; but the LORD accepteth them not; now will he remember their
iniquity, and visit their sins: they shall return to Egypt.

13. In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for
thirst.

14. And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,

14. And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, the
courses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their
charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of
every day required: the porters also by their courses at every gate:
for so had David the man of God commanded.

14. Of the sons also of Bigvai; Uthai, and Zabbud, and with them
seventy males.

14. And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded by
Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast
of the seventh month:

14. So the posts that rode upon mules and camels went out, being
hastened and pressed on by the king’s commandment. And the decree was
given at Shushan the palace.

14. Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall
be a spider’s web.

14. Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have
strength.

14. There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there be
just men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked;
again, there be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work
of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.

14. Make haste, my beloved, and be thou like to a roe or to a young
hart upon the mountains of spices.




The Book of the Prophet Isaiah

14. And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and
for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for
a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

14. Why do we sit still? assemble yourselves, and let us enter into
the defenced cities, and let us be silent there: for the LORD our God
hath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, because
we have sinned against the LORD.

14. Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORD’s house
which was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping for
Tammuz.

14. And he said
unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed.

14. For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and buildeth temples; and
Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his
cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.

14. They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan,
liveth; and, The manner of Beersheba liveth; even they shall fall, and
never rise up again.

15. And
Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,

15. And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto the
priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the
treasures.

15. And I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava;
and there abode we in tents three days: and I viewed the people, and
the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.

15. And that they should publish and proclaim
in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the
mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle
branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make
booths, as it is written.

15. And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal
apparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a
garment of fine linen and purple: and the city of Shushan rejoiced and
was glad.

15. He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall
hold it fast, but it shall not endure.

15. By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.

15. Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under
the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall
abide with him of his labour the days of his life, which God giveth
him under the sun.

15. And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and
be snared, and be taken.

15. We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of health,
and behold trouble!

15. Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? turn
thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations than these.

15. And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision,
and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the
appearance of a man.

16. And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha,
the sons of Beriah;

16. Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the
foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the
house of the LORD was perfected.

16. Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for
Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for
Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for
Elnathan, men of understanding.

16. So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves
booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and
in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water
gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim.

16. The Jews had light, and gladness, and joy, and honour.

16. He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his
garden.

16. By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.

16. When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and to see the business
that is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither day nor
night seeth sleep with his eyes:)

16. Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.

16. The snorting of his horses was heard from
Dan: the whole land trembled at the sound of the neighing of his
strong ones; for they are come, and have devoured the land, and all
that is in it; the city, and those that dwell therein.

16. And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD’s house, and,
behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and
the altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs toward the
temple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east; and they
worshipped the sun toward the east.

16. And I heard a man’s voice between the banks of Ulai, which
called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision.

17. And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and
Heber,

17. Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the sea side in
the land of Edom.

17. And I sent them with commandment unto Iddo the chief at the place
Casiphia, and I told them what they should say unto Iddo, and to his
brethren the Nethinims, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring
unto us ministers for the house of our God.

17. And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the
captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of
Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel
done so. And there was very great gladness.

17. And in every province, and in every city, whithersoever the
king’s commandment and his decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness,
a feast and a good day. And many of the people of the land became
Jews; for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.

17. His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of
stones.

17. I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find
me.

17. Then I beheld all the work of
God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun:
because though a man labour to seek it out, yet he shall not find it;
yea farther; though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be
able to find it.

17. And I will wait upon the LORD, that hideth his face from the
house of Jacob, and I will look for him.

17. For, behold, I will send serpents, cockatrices, among you, which
will not be charmed, and they shall bite you, saith the LORD.

17. Then he said unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? Is it a
light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations
which they commit here? for they have filled the land with violence,
and have returned to provoke me to anger: and, lo, they put the branch
to their nose.

17. So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid,
and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man:
for at the time of the end shall be the vision.

18. Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;

18. And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and
servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with the
servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fifty
talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.

18. And by the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of
understanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of
Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen;

18. Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in
the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on
the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner.

18. If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying,
I have not seen thee.

18. Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and
righteousness.

18. Behold, I and the children whom the LORD hath given me are for
signs and for wonders in Israel from the LORD of hosts, which dwelleth
in mount Zion.

18. When I would comfort myself against sorrow, my heart is faint in
me.

18. Therefore will I also deal in fury: mine eye shall not spare,
neither will I have pity: and though they cry in mine ears with a loud
voice, yet will I not hear them.

18. Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my face
toward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright.

19. And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,

19. And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his
brethren and their sons, twenty;

19. Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall
others grow.

19. My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue
than choice silver.

19. And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have
familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should
not a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead?

19. Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people because
of them that dwell in a far country: Is not the LORD in Zion? is not
her king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven
images, and with strange vanities?

19. And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the
last end of the indignation: for at the time appointed the end shall
be.

20. And Elienai, and Zilthai,
and Eliel,

20. Also of the Nethinims, whom
David and the princes had appointed for the service of the Levites,
two hundred and twenty Nethinims: all of them were expressed by name.

20. Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he
help the evil doers:

20. I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of
judgment:

20. To
the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this
word, it is because there is no light in them.

20. The harvest is past, the
summer is ended, and we are not saved.

20. The ram which thou sawest having two horns are the kings of Media
and Persia.

21. And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of
Shimhi;

21. Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that we
might afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way for
us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.

21. Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and
thy lips with rejoicing.

21. That I may cause those that love me to inherit
substance; and I will fill their treasures.

21. And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: and it
shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret
themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.

21. For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; I am black;
astonishment hath taken hold on me.

21. And the rough goat is the king of Grecia: and the great horn that
is between his eyes is the first king.

22. And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,

22. For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and
horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way: because we had
spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for
good that seek him; but his power and his wrath is against all them
that forsake him.

22. They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling
place of the wicked shall come to nought.

22. The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his
works of old.

22. And they shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble and
darkness, dimness of anguish; and they shall be driven to darkness.

22. Is there no balm in Gilead; is there no physician there? why then
is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?

22. Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four
kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in his power.

23. And Abdon, and
Zichri, and Hanan,

23. So we fasted and besought our God for this: and he was intreated
of us.

23. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the
earth was.

23. And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors
are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding
dark sentences, shall stand up.

24. And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,

24. Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests, Sherebiah,
Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them,

24. When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were
no fountains abounding with water.

24. And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power: and he
shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shall
destroy the mighty and the holy people.

25. And Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;

25. And weighed unto
them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering of
the house of our God, which the king, and his counsellors, and his
lords, and all Israel there present, had offered:

25. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought
forth:

25. And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and by peace
shall destroy many: he shall also stand up against the Prince of
princes; but he shall be broken without hand.

26. And Shamsherai,
and Shehariah, and Athaliah,

26. I even weighed
unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silver
vessels an hundred talents, and of gold an hundred talents;

26. While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields,
nor the highest part of the dust of the world.

26. And the vision of the evening and the morning which was told is
true: wherefore shut thou up the vision; for it shall be for many
days.

27. And Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri,
the sons of Jeroham.

27. Also
twenty basons of gold, of a thousand drams; and two vessels of fine
copper, precious as gold.

27. When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass
upon the face of the depth:

27. And I Daniel fainted, and was sick certain days; afterward I rose
up, and did the king’s business; and I was astonished at the vision,
but none understood it.

28. These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chief men.

These dwelt in Jerusalem.

28. And I said unto them, Ye are holy unto the LORD; the vessels are
holy also; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering unto
the LORD God of your fathers.

28. When he established the clouds above:
when he strengthened the fountains of the deep:

29. And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; whose wife’s name was
Maachah:

29. Watch ye, and keep them, until ye weigh them before the chief of
the priests and the Levites, and chief of the fathers of Israel, at
Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LORD.

29. When he gave to
the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment:
when he appointed the foundations of the earth:

30. And his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and
Baal, and Nadab,

30. So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver, and
the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house
of our God.

30. Then I was by
him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight,
rejoicing always before him;

31. And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.

31. Then we departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day of
the first month, to go unto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was
upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy, and of such
as lay in wait by the way.

31. Rejoicing in the habitable part of
his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.

32. And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these also dwelt with their
brethren in Jerusalem, over against them.

32. And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days.

32. Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are
they that keep my ways.

33. And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan,
and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

33. Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels
weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of
Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and
with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of
Binnui, Levites;

33. Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.

34. And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat Micah.

34. By number and by weight of every one: and all
the weight was written at that time.

34. Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates,
waiting at the posts of my doors.

35. And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and
Ahaz.

35. Also the children of those that had been carried away, which were
come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God of
Israel, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy
and seven lambs, twelve he goats for a sin offering: all this was a
burnt offering unto the LORD.

35. For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the
LORD.

36. And Ahaz begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and
Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza,

36. And they delivered the king’s commissions unto the king’s
lieutenants, and to the governors on this side the river: and they
furthered the people, and the house of God.

36. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they
that hate me love death.

37. And Moza begat Binea:
Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son:

38. And Azel had
six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and
Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.

39. And the sons of Eshek his brother were, Ulam his firstborn,
Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.

40. And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers, and had
many sons, and sons’ sons, an hundred and fifty. All these are of the
sons of Benjamin.