1. Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and
were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and
pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.

1. Moreover Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out
twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this
night:

1. And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead,
said unto Ahab, As the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand,
there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

1. In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son of
Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel nine years.

1. Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said
to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the ark
of the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.

1. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

1. My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready
for me.

1. Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my
prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

1. Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house
full of sacrifices with strife.

1. The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being
a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.

1. The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the
point of a diamond: it is graven upon the table of their heart, and
upon the horns of your altars;

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and
pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the
Philistines.

2. And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak
handed, and will make him afraid: and all the people that are with him
shall flee; and I will smite the king only:

2. And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

2. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but not
as the kings of Israel that were before him.

2. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; for
God is with thee.

2. And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

2. Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in
their provocation?

2. Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes
behold the things that are equal.

2. A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and
shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren.

2. The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, which
shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.

2. Whilst their children remember
their altars and their groves by the green trees upon the high hills.

2. Son of man,
put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel;

3. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and
Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley
between them.

3. And I will bring back
all the people unto thee: the man whom thou seekest is as if all
returned: so all the people shall be in peace.

3. Get thee
hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith,
that is before Jordan.

3. Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hoshea
became his servant, and gave him presents.

3. And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to
Nathan, saying,

3. And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim;

3. Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee;
who is he that will strike hands with me?

3. Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night;
thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my
mouth shall not transgress.

3. The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the
LORD trieth the hearts.

3. The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from
Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of the
children of Israel, saith the LORD of hosts.

3. O my mountain in the field, I will give thy substance and all thy
treasures to the spoil, and thy high places for sin, throughout all
thy borders.

3. And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; A great eagle with great wings,
longwinged, full of feathers, which had divers colours, came unto
Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar:

4. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines,
named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.

4. And the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the elders of
Israel.

4. And it shall be, that thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have
commanded the ravens to feed thee there.

4. And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he had
sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and brought no present to the
king of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of
Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.

4. Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith the
LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in:

4. But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

4. For thou hast hid
their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.

4. Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept
me from the paths of the destroyer.

4. A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to
a naughty tongue.

4. And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob
shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax lean.

4. And thou, even thyself, shalt discontinue from thine heritage
that I gave thee; and I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in the
land which thou knowest not: for ye have kindled a fire in mine anger,
which shall burn for ever.

4. He cropped off
the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land of traffick; he
set it in a city of merchants.

5. And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed
with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand
shekels of brass.

5. Then said Absalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us
hear likewise what he saith.

5. So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he
went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

5. Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and
went up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.

5. For I have
not dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this
day; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to
another.

5. Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in
abundance.

5. He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his
children shall fail.

5. Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

5. Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad
at calamities shall not be unpunished.

5. And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn, and
reapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be as he that gathereth
ears in the valley of Rephaim.

5. Thus saith the LORD; Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and
maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD.

5. He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a
fruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and set it as a willow
tree.

6. And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass
between his shoulders.

6. And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him,
saying, Ahithophel hath spoken after this manner: shall we do after
his saying? if not; speak thou.

6. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and
bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.

6. In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, and
carried Israel away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah and in
Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.

6. Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any
of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying,
Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?

6. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

6. He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was
as a tabret.

6. I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline
thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.

6. Children’s children are the crown of old men; and the glory of
children are their fathers.

6. Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an
olive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough,
four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the LORD
God of Israel.

6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see
when good cometh; but shall inhabit the parched places in the
wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited.

6. And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose
branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: so
it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.

7. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver’s beam; and his
spear’s head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a
shield went before him.

7. And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath
given is not good at this time.

7. And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up,
because there had been no rain in the land.

7. For so it was, that the children of Israel had sinned against the
LORD their God, which had brought them up out of the land of Egypt,
from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other
gods,

7. Now therefore thus
shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I
took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thou
shouldest be ruler over my people Israel:

7. Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

7. Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are
as a shadow.

7. Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy
right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up
against them.

7. Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a
prince.

7. At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall
have respect to the Holy One of Israel.

7. Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope the
LORD is.

7. There was also another great eagle with great wings and many
feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and
shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the
furrows of her plantation.

8. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto
them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a
Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let
him come down to me.

8. For, said Hushai, thou knowest thy father and his men, that they
be mighty men, and they be chafed in their minds, as a bear robbed of
her whelps in the field: and thy father is a man of war, and will not
lodge with the people.

8. And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

8. And walked in the statutes of the heathen, whom the LORD
cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of
Israel, which they had made.

8. And I have been with
thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine
enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name of
the great men that are in the earth.

8. And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,
and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram, priests.

8. Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall
stir up himself against the hypocrite.

8. Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy
wings,

8. A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it:
whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.

8. And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands,
neither shall respect that which his fingers have made, either the
groves, or the images.

8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that
spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heat
cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the
year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.

8. It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it might
bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a
goodly vine.

9. If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be
your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall
ye be our servants, and serve us.

9. Behold, he is hid now in some pit, or in some other place: and it
will come to pass, when some of them be overthrown at the first, that
whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the people
that follow Absalom.

9. Arise, get
thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there: behold,
I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee.

9. And the children of Israel did secretly those things that were
not right against the LORD their God, and they built them high places
in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced
city.

9. Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant
them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;
neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at
the beginning,

9. And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD
with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the people.

9. The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean
hands shall be stronger and stronger.

9. From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who
compass me about.

9. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that
repeateth a matter separateth very friends.

9. In that day shall his strong cities be as a forsaken bough, and
an uppermost branch, which they left because of the children of
Israel: and there shall be desolation.

9. The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked:
who can know it?

9. Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he not
pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it
wither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without
great power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof.

10. And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day;
give me a man, that we may fight together.

10. And he also that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a
lion, shall utterly melt: for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a
mighty man, and they which be with him are valiant men.

10. So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate
of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks:
and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water
in a vessel, that I may drink.

10. And they set them up images and groves in every high hill, and
under every green tree:

10. And since the time that I commanded judges to be
over my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.
Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.

10. And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

10. But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot
find one wise man among you.

10. They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak
proudly.

10. A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes
into a fool.

10. Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast
not been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thou
plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips:

10. I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins,
even to give every man according to his ways, and according to the
fruit of his doings.

10. Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not
utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in the
furrows where it grew.

11. When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine,
they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.

11. Therefore I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto
thee, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea for
multitude; and that thou go to battle in thine own person.

11. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said,
Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand.

11. And there they burnt incense in all the
high places, as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away before
them; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger:

11. And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after
thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

11. Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

11. My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts
of my heart.

11. They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their
eyes bowing down to the earth;

11. An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger
shall be sent against him.

11. In
the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shalt
thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in the
day of grief and of desperate sorrow.

11. As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not; so he
that getteth riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midst
of his days, and at his end shall be a fool.

11. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

12. Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah,
whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among
men for an old man in the days of Saul.

12. So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found,
and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground: and of
him and of all the men that are with him there shall not be left so
much as one.

12. And she said, As the LORD thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but
an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and,
behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for
me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.

12. For they served idols, whereof the LORD had said unto them, Ye shall
not do this thing.

12. He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for
ever.

12. And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

12. They change the night into day: the light is short because of
darkness.

12. Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a
young lion lurking in secret places.

12. Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool
in his folly.

12. Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like the
noise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that make a rushing
like the rushing of mighty waters!

12. A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of our
sanctuary.

12. Say
now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these things mean? tell
them, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath taken
the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to
Babylon;

13. And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the
battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were
Eliab the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third
Shammah.

13. Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel
bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until
there be not one small stone found there.

13. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said:
but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and
after make for thee and for thy son.

13. Yet the LORD testified against Israel, and against Judah, by all
the prophets, and by all the seers, saying, Turn ye from your evil
ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the
law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my
servants the prophets.

13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before
thee:

13. And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

13. If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the
darkness.

13. Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul
from the wicked, which is thy sword:

13. Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his
house.

13. The nations shall rush like
the rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shall
flee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before
the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.

13. O LORD, the hope of Israel, all that forsake thee shall be
ashamed, and they that depart from me shall be written in the earth,
because they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.

13. And hath taken of the king’s seed, and made a covenant
with him, and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty
of the land:

14. And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.

14. And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of
Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the
LORD had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the
intent that the LORD might bring evil upon Absalom.

14. For thus saith the LORD God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall
not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the
LORD sendeth rain upon the earth.

14. Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks,
like to the neck of their fathers, that did not believe in the LORD
their God.

14. But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for
ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

14. And these are the numbers of them according to the house of
their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

14. I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou
art my mother, and my sister.

14. From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world,
which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest
with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest
of their substance to their babes.

14. The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water:
therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with.

14. And behold at eveningtide trouble; and before the morning he is
not.

This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that
rob us.

14. Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be
saved: for thou art my praise.

14. That the kingdom might be base, that it might not
lift itself up, but that by keeping of his covenant it might stand.

15. But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father’s sheep
at Bethlehem.

15. Then said Hushai unto Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, Thus
and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel; and
thus and thus have I counselled.

15. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she,
and he, and her house, did eat many days.

15. And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made
with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified against
them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after the
heathen that were round about them, concerning whom the LORD had
charged them, that they should not do like them.

15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

15. And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

15. And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?

15. As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be
satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.

15. He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just,
even they both are abomination to the LORD.

15. Behold, they say unto me, Where is the word of the LORD? let it
come now.

15. But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into
Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall he
prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break the
covenant, and be delivered?

16. And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented
himself forty days.

16. Now therefore send quickly, and tell David, saying, Lodge not
this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over;
lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him.

16. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil
fail, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by Elijah.

16. And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, and
made them molten images, even two calves, and made a grove, and
worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.

16. And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who
am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto?

16. And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

16. They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest
together is in the dust.

16. Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom,
seeing he hath no heart to it?

16. As for me, I have not hastened from being a pastor to follow
thee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that which
came out of my lips was right before thee.

16. As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
surely in the place where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose
oath he despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him in the
midst of Babylon he shall die.

17. And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an
ephah of this parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp
of thy brethren;

17. Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed by Enrogel; for they might not
be seen to come into the city: and a wench went and told them; and
they went and told king David.

17. And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the
woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so
sore, that there was no breath left in him.

17. And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through
the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to
do evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

17. And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;
for thou hast also spoken of thy servant’s house for a great while to
come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high
degree, O LORD God.

17. And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

17. A friend loveth at all times,
and a brother is born for adversity.

17. Be not a terror unto me: thou art my hope in the day of evil.

17. Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company
make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to
cut off many persons:

18. And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of
their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.

18. Nevertheless a lad saw them, and told Absalom: but they went
both of them away quickly, and came to a man’s house in Bahurim, which
had a well in his court; whither they went down.

18. And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou
man of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and
to slay my son?

18. Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel, and removed them
out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only.

18. What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant?
for thou knowest thy servant.

18. And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

18. A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety
in the presence of his friend.

18. Let them be confounded that persecute me, but let not me be
confounded: let them be dismayed, but let not me be dismayed: bring
upon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.

18. Seeing he despised the oath by breaking
the covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all these
things, he shall not escape.

19. Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the
valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.

19. And the woman took and spread a covering over the well’s mouth,
and spread ground corn thereon; and the thing was not known.

19. And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he
took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he
abode, and laid him upon his own bed.

19. Also Judah kept not the commandments of the LORD their God, but
walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.

19. O LORD, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own
heart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all these
great things.

19. These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

19. He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth
his gate seeketh destruction.

19. Thus said the LORD unto me; Go and stand in the gate of the
children of the people, whereby the kings of Judah come in, and by the
which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;

19. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely mine oath
that he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even it
will I recompense upon his own head.

20. And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with
a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came
to the trench, as the host was going forth to the fight, and shouted
for the battle.

20. And when Absalom’s servants came to the woman to the house, they
said, Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said unto them,
They be gone over the brook of water. And when they had sought and
could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.

20. And he cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, hast thou
also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her
son?

20. And the LORD rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted
them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast
them out of his sight.

20. O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside
thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

20. He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a
perverse tongue falleth into mischief.

20. And say
unto them, Hear ye the word of the LORD, ye kings of Judah, and all
Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by these
gates:

20. And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my
snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him there
for his trespass that he hath trespassed against me.

21. For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army
against army.

21. And it came to pass, after they were departed, that they came up
out of the well, and went and told king David, and said unto David,
Arise, and pass quickly over the water: for thus hath Ahithophel
counselled against you.

21. And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and
cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this
child’s soul come into him again.

21. For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made
Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel from
following the LORD, and made them sin a great sin.

21. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom
God went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name of
greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thy
people whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?

21. He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father
of a fool hath no joy.

21. Thus saith the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and bear no
burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;

21. And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the
sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: and
ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken it.

22. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the
carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.

22. Then David arose, and all the people that were with him, and
they passed over Jordan: by the morning light there lacked not one of
them that was not gone over Jordan.

22. And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the
child came into him again, and he revived.

22. For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam
which he did; they departed not from them;

22. For thy people
Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,
becamest their God.

22. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit
drieth the bones.

22. Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath
day, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as I
commanded your fathers.

22. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also take of the highest branch
of the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top of
his young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon an high mountain
and eminent:

23. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion,
the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the
Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard
them.

23. And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he
saddled his ass, and arose, and gat him home to his house, to his
city, and put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died,
and was buried in the sepulchre of his father.

23. And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the
chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah
said, See, thy son liveth.

23. Until the LORD
removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants
the prophets. So was Israel carried away out of their own land to
Assyria unto this day.

23. Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken
concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for
ever, and do as thou hast said.

23. A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways
of judgment.

23. But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made their
neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.

23. In the mountain of the height of Israel will I
plant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a
goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the
shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell.

24. And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him,
and were sore afraid.

24. Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over Jordan, he
and all the men of Israel with him.

24. And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a
man of God, and that the word of the LORD in thy mouth is truth.

24. And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from
Cuthah, and from Ava, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed
them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel: and
they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.

24. Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for
ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and let the house of David thy servant be established before
thee.

24. Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a
fool are in the ends of the earth.

24. And it shall come to pass, if ye diligently hearken unto me,
saith the LORD, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city
on the sabbath day, but hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;

24. And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have
brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up
the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I the LORD
have spoken and have done it.

25. And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come
up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the
man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and
will give him his daughter, and make his father’s house free in
Israel.

25. And Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab:
which Amasa was a man’s son, whose name was Ithra an Israelite, that
went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah Joab’s
mother.

25. And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, that
they feared not the LORD: therefore the LORD sent lions among them,
which slew some of them.

25. For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt build
him an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to pray
before thee.

25. A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her
that bare him.

25. Then shall there enter into the gates of this city kings and
princes sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on
horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants
of Jerusalem: and this city shall remain for ever.

26. And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall
be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the
reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that
he should defy the armies of the living God?

26. So Israel and Absalom pitched in the land of Gilead.

26. Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations
which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not
the manner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among
them, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not the manner of
the God of the land.

26. And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodness
unto thy servant:

26. Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for
equity.

26. And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the
places about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the
plain, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burnt
offerings, and sacrifices, and meat offerings, and incense, and
bringing sacrifices of praise, unto the house of the LORD.

27. And the people
answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man
that killeth him.

27. And it came to pass, when David was come to Mahanaim, that Shobi
the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the
son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim,

27. Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of
the priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and dwell
there, and let him teach them the manner of the God of the land.

27. Now therefore let it please thee to bless the
house of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thou
blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.

27. He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of
understanding is of an excellent spirit.

27. But if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day,
and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem
on the sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof,
and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be
quenched.

28. And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men;
and Eliab’s anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest
thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the
wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for
thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.

28. Brought beds, and basons, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and
barley, and flour, and parched corn, and beans, and lentiles, and
parched pulse,

28. Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria
came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the
LORD.

28. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he
that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.

29. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?

29. And honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of
kine, for David, and for the people that were with him, to eat: for
they said, The people is hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the
wilderness.

29. Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the
houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation
in their cities wherein they dwelt.

30. And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same
manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.

30. And the men of Babylon made Succothbenoth, and the men of Cuth
made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,

31. And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed
them before Saul: and he sent for him.

31. And the Avites
made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their children in
fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.

32. And David said to Saul, Let no man’s heart fail because of him;
thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.

32. So they feared the LORD, and made unto themselves of the lowest
of them priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the
houses of the high places.

33. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this
Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man
of war from his youth.

33. They feared the LORD, and served their own gods, after the
manner of the nations whom they carried away from thence.

34. And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father’s sheep,
and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:

34. Unto this day they do after the former manners: they fear not
the LORD, neither do they after their statutes, or after their
ordinances, or after the law and commandment which the LORD commanded
the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel;

35. And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of
his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard,
and smote him, and slew him.

35. With whom the LORD
had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other
gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to
them:

36. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this
uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath
defied the armies of the living God.

36. But the LORD, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt
with great power and a stretched out arm, him shall ye fear, and him
shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.

37. David said moreover, The LORD that delivered me out of the paw
of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of
the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the
LORD be with thee.

37. And the statutes, and the ordinances, and the law, and the
commandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do for
evermore; and ye shall not fear other gods.

38. And Saul armed David with his armour, and he put an helmet of
brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.

38. And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget;
neither shall ye fear other gods.

39. And David girded his sword upon his armour, and he assayed to
go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go
with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

39. But the LORD your God ye shall fear; and he shall deliver you
out of the hand of all your enemies.

40. And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth
stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd’s bag which he
had, even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near
to the Philistine.

40. Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their former
manner.

41. And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man
that bare the shield went before him.

41. So these nations feared the LORD, and served their graven
images, both their children, and their children’s children: as did
their fathers, so do they unto this day.

42. And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he
disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair
countenance.

43. And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest
to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

44. And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give
thy flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts of the field.

45. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a
sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the
name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou
hast defied.

46. This day will the LORD deliver thee into mine hand; and I will
smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the
carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the
air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know
that there is a God in Israel.

47. And all this assembly shall know that the LORD saveth not with
sword and spear: for the battle is the LORD’s, and he will give you
into our hands.

48. And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came, and
drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army
to meet the Philistine.

49. And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and
slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone
sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.

50. So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a
stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword
in the hand of David.

51. Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his
sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut
off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion
was dead, they fled.

52. And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and
pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the
gates of Ekron.

And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim,
even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.

53. And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the
Philistines, and they spoiled their tents.

54. And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to
Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.

55. And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said
unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth?
And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.

56. And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the stripling is.

57. And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine,
Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the
Philistine in his hand.

58. And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And
David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.