1. And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto
Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and
Jonathan loved him as his own soul.

1. And David numbered the people that were with him, and set
captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds over them.

1. And it came to pass after many days, that the word of the LORD
came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto Ahab;
and I will send rain upon the earth.

1. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king
of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign.

1. Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of the
Philistines.

1. Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joined
affinity with Ahab.

1. Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

1. I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

1. Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and
intermeddleth with all wisdom.

1. Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers
of Ethiopia:

1. The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

1. The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying,

2. And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to
his father’s house.

2. And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of
Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah,
Joab’s brother, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite.
And the king said unto the people, I will surely go forth with you
myself also.

2. And Elijah went to shew himself unto Ahab. And there was a sore
famine in Samaria.

2. Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign; and he
reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Abi, the daughter of Zachariah.

2. And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David’s servants, and
brought gifts.

2. And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab
killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that he
had with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramothgilead.

2. How long will it
be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.

2. The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God,
my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my
salvation, and my high tower.

2. A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may
discover itself.

2. That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels
of bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to a
nation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their beginning
hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivers
have spoiled!

2. Arise, and go down to the potter’s house, and there I will cause thee
to hear my words.

2. What mean
ye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying,
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set
on edge?

3. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as
his own soul.

3. But the people answered, Thou shalt not go forth: for if we flee
away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they
care for us: but now thou art worth ten thousand of us: therefore now
it is better that thou succour us out of the city.

3. And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house.
(Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly:

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that David his father did.

3. And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went
to stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates.

3. And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt
thou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he answered him, I am as thou
art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.

3. Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your
sight?

3. I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall
I be saved from mine enemies.

3. When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with
ignominy reproach.

3. All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on
the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and
when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye.

3. Then I went down to the potter’s house, and, behold, he wrought a
work on the wheels.

3. As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not have
occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.

4. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and
gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow,
and to his girdle.

4. And the king said unto them, What seemeth you best I will do. And
the king stood by the gate side, and all the people came out by
hundreds and by thousands.

4. For it was so, when Jezebel
cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took an hundred
prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and
water.)

4. He removed the high places, and brake the images, and cut down
the groves, and brake in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses had
made: for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to
it: and he called it Nehushtan.

4. And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand
horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also houghed all the
chariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots.

4. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray
thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

4. He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be
forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place?

4. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid.

4. The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring
of wisdom as a flowing brook.

4. For so the LORD said unto me, I will take my rest, and I will
consider in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like a
cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.

4. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the
potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the
potter to make it.

4. Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also
the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.

5. And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved
himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was
accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of
Saul’s servants.

5. And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal
gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom. And all the
people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning
Absalom.

5. And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go into the land, unto all
fountains of water, and unto all brooks: peradventure we may find
grass to save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the
beasts.

5. He trusted in the LORD God of Israel; so that after him was none
like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him.

5. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of
Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.

5. Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four
hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramothgilead to
battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver
it into the king’s hand.

5. Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of
his fire shall not shine.

5. The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death
prevented me.

5. It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow
the righteous in judgment.

5. For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfect, and the sour
grape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigs with
pruning hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.

5. Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

5. But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right,

6. And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from
the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all cities
of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with
joy, and with instruments of musick.

6. So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the
battle was in the wood of Ephraim;

6. So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab
went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.

6. For he clave to the LORD, and departed not from following him,
but kept his commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses.

6. Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians became
David’s servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David
whithersoever he went.

6. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?

6. The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall
be put out with him.

6. In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he
heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even
into his ears.

6. A fool’s lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for
strokes.

6. They shall be left together unto the fowls of the mountains, and
to the beasts of the earth: and the fowls shall summer upon them, and
all the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.

6. O house of
Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the LORD. Behold,
as the clay is in the potter’s hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house
of Israel.

6. And hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyes
to the idols of the house of Israel, neither hath defiled his
neighbour’s wife, neither hath come near to a menstruous woman,

7. And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul
hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.

7. Where the people of Israel
were slain before the servants of David, and there was there a great
slaughter that day of twenty thousand men.

7. And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah met him: and he
knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art thou that my lord
Elijah?

7. And the LORD was with him; and he prospered whithersoever he went
forth: and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him
not.

7. And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of
Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

7. And the king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire of
the LORD: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but
always evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat
said, Let not the king say so.

7. The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own
counsel shall cast him down.

7. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

7. A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of
his soul.

7. In that time shall the present be brought unto the LORD of hosts
of a people scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible from
their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot,
whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the name of the
LORD of hosts, the mount Zion.

7. At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning
a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it;

7. And hath not oppressed any, but hath restored to the debtor his
pledge, hath spoiled none by violence, hath given his bread to the
hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment;

8. And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he
said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have
ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?

8. For the battle was there scattered over the face of all the
country: and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword
devoured.

8. And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy lord, Behold,
Elijah is here.

8. He smote the Philistines, even unto Gaza, and the borders
thereof, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.

8. Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer,
brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea,
and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

8. And the king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said,
Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.

8. For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a
snare.

8. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

8. The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into
the innermost parts of the belly.

8. If
that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their evil, I
will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them.

8. He that hath
not given forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hath
withdrawn his hand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment between
man and man,

9. And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.

9. And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a
mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his
head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven
and the earth; and the mule that was under him went away.

9. And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy
servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?

9. And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which
was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that
Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria, and besieged it.

9. Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the
host of Hadarezer king of Zobah;

9. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat either
of them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in a void
place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets
prophesied before them.

9. The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail
against him.

9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under
his feet.

9. He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a
great waster.

9. And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and
concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it;

9. Hath walked in my statutes, and hath kept my
judgments, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, saith the
Lord GOD.

10. And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God
came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David
played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in
Saul’s hand.

10. And a certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw
Absalom hanged in an oak.

10. As the LORD thy God
liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent
to seek thee: and when they said, He is not there; he took an oath of
the kingdom and nation, that they found thee not.

10. And at the end of three years they took it: even in the sixth
year of Hezekiah, that is in the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel,
Samaria was taken.

10. He sent Hadoram his son to king
David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he
had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war
with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and
brass.

10. And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron,
and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria until
they be consumed.

10. The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in
the way.

10. And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the
wings of the wind.

10. The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth
into it, and is safe.

10. If it do evil in
my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good,
wherewith I said I would benefit them.

10. If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and that
doeth the like to any one of these things,

11. And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even
to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

11. And Joab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou
sawest him, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? and
I would have given thee ten shekels of silver, and a girdle.

11. And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here.

11. And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyria, and
put them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the
cities of the Medes:

11. Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver
and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and
from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines,
and from Amalek.

11. And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand
of the king.

11. Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him
to his feet.

11. He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him
were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

11. The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in
his own conceit.

11. Now therefore go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I frame
evil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye now every
one from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good.

11. And that doeth not
any of those duties, but even hath eaten upon the mountains, and
defiled his neighbour’s wife,

12. And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him, and
was departed from Saul.

12. And the man said unto Joab, Though I should receive a thousand
shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth mine hand
against the king’s son: for in our hearing the king charged thee and
Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man
Absalom.

12. And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that
the Spirit of the LORD shall carry thee whither I know not; and so
when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he shall slay me:
but I thy servant fear the LORD from my youth.

12. Because they obeyed not the voice of the
LORD their God, but transgressed his covenant, and all that Moses the
servant of the LORD commanded, and would not hear them, nor do them.

12. Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the
valley of salt eighteen thousand.

12. And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him,
saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king
with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of
theirs, and speak thou good.

12. His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be
ready at his side.

12. At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of fire.

12. Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before
honour is humility.

12. And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk after our own
devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart.

12. Hath oppressed the poor and needy,
hath spoiled by violence, hath not restored the pledge, and hath
lifted up his eyes to the idols, hath committed abomination,

13. Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain
over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.

13. Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life:
for there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest
have set thyself against me.

13. Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the
prophets of the LORD, how I hid an hundred men of the LORD’s prophets
by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?

13. Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah did Sennacherib king
of Assyria come up against all the fenced cities of Judah, and took
them.

13. And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became
David’s servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

13. And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith,
that will I speak.

13. It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of
death shall devour his strength.

13. The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his
voice; hail stones and coals of fire.

13. He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and
shame unto him.

13. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ask ye now among the heathen, who
hath heard such things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very horrible
thing.

13. Hath given forth upon usury, and hath taken increase: shall he then
live? he shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he shall
surely die; his blood shall be upon him.

14. And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and the LORD
was with him.

14. Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took
three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom,
while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.

14. And now
thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here: and he shall
slay me.

14. And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria to
Lachish, saying, I have offended; return from me: that which thou
puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto
Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty
talents of gold.

14. So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and
justice among all his people.

14. And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him,
Micaiah, shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear?
And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into
your hand.

14. His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it
shall bring him to the king of terrors.

14. Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out
lightnings, and discomfited them.

14. The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded
spirit who can bear?

14. Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rock
of the field? or shall the cold flowing waters that come from another
place be forsaken?

14. Now, lo, if he beget a son, that seeth all his father’s sins
which he hath done, and considereth, and doeth not such like,

15. Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he
was afraid of him.

15. And ten young men that bare Joab’s armour compassed about and
smote Absalom, and slew him.

15. And Elijah said, As the LORD of hosts liveth, before whom I
stand, I will surely shew myself unto him to day.

15. And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house
of the LORD, and in the treasures of the king’s house.

15. And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat
the son of Ahilud, recorder.

15. And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?

15. It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his:
brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.

15. Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of
the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the
breath of thy nostrils.

15. The heart of the prudent getteth
knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.

15. Because my people hath forgotten me, they
have burned incense to vanity, and they have caused them to stumble in
their ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not cast
up;

15. That hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his
eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hath not defiled his
neighbour’s wife,

16. But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and
came in before them.

16. And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing
after Israel: for Joab held back the people.

16. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab went to
meet Elijah.

16. At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the
temple of the LORD, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah
had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria.

16. And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar,
were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe;

16. Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains,
as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no
master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

16. His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch
be cut off.

16. He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

16. A man’s gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great
men.

16. To make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing; every
one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.

16. Neither hath oppressed any, hath not
withholden the pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath
given his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a
garment,

17. And Saul said to David, Behold my elder daughter Merab, her will
I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the LORD’s
battles.

For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the
Philistines be upon him.

17. And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the
wood, and laid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel
fled every one to his tent.

17. And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto
him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?

17. And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakeh
from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great host against Jerusalem. And
they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they were come up, they
came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the
highway of the fuller’s field.

17. And Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of
David were chief about the king.

17. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee
that he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?

17. His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have
no name in the street.

17. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

17. He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his
neighbour cometh and searcheth him.

17. I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I
will shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of their
calamity.

17. That hath taken off his hand from the poor, that hath
not received usury nor increase, hath executed my judgments, hath
walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his
father, he shall surely live.

18. And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my
father’s family in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king?

18. Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself
a pillar, which is in the king’s dale: for he said, I have no son to
keep my name in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own
name: and it is called unto this day, Absalom’s place.

18. And he answered, I have
not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father’s house, in that ye have
forsaken the commandments of the LORD, and thou hast followed Baalim.

18. And when they had called to the king, there came out to them
Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shebna
the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.

18. Again he
said, Therefore hear the word of the LORD; I saw the LORD sitting upon
his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and
on his left.

18. He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of
the world.

18. They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

18. The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the
mighty.

18. Then said they, Come and let us devise devices against Jeremiah;
for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the
wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, and let us smite him with
the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words.

18. As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, spoiled his
brother by violence, and did that which is not good among his people,
lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.

19. But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul’s daughter
should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the
Meholathite to wife.

19. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear the
king tidings, how that the LORD hath avenged him of his enemies.

19. Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto mount
Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the
prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel’s table.

19. And Rabshakeh said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, Thus
saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this
wherein thou trustest?

19. And the LORD said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he
may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spake saying after this
manner, and another saying after that manner.

19. He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any
remaining in his dwellings.

19. He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

19. A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and
their contentions are like the bars of a castle.

19. Give heed to me, O LORD, and hearken to the voice of them that
contend with me.

19. Yet say ye, Why? doth not the son bear the iniquity of the
father? When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, and
hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live.

20. And Michal Saul’s daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and
the thing pleased him.

20. And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day,
but thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear
no tidings, because the king’s son is dead.

20. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the
prophets together unto mount Carmel.

20. Thou sayest, (but they are but vain
words,) I have counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou
trust, that thou rebellest against me?

20. Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will entice him. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?

20. They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they
that went before were affrighted.

20. The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

20. A man’s belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth;
and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.

20. Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pit
for my soul. Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them,
and to turn away thy wrath from them.

20. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bear the
iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of
the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the
wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.

21. And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to
him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him.
Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in
the one of the twain.

21. Then said Joab to Cushi, Go tell the king what thou hast seen.
And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran.

21. And Elijah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye
between two opinions? if the LORD be God, follow him: but if Baal,
then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.

21. Now, behold, thou
trustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt, on
which if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is
Pharaoh king of Egypt unto all that trust on him.

21. And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all
his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou shalt
also prevail: go out, and do even so.

21. Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the
place of him that knoweth not God.

21. For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

21. Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that
love it shall eat the fruit thereof.

21. Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour out
their blood by the force of the sword; and let their wives be bereaved
of their children, and be widows; and let their men be put to death;
let their young men be slain by the sword in battle.

21. But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath
committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and
right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

22. And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David
secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his
servants love thee: now therefore be the king’s son in law.

22. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But
howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said,
Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings
ready?

22. Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a
prophet of the LORD; but Baal’s prophets are four hundred and fifty
men.

22. But if ye say unto me, We trust in the LORD our God: is not that
he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and
hath said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar
in Jerusalem?

22. Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil against
thee.

22. For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his
statutes from me.

22. Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour
of the LORD.

22. Let a cry be heard from their houses, when thou shalt bring a
troop suddenly upon them: for they have digged a pit to take me, and
hid snares for my feet.

22. All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be
mentioned unto him: in his righteousness that he hath done he shall
live.

23. And Saul’s servants spake those words in the ears of David. And
David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king’s son in law,
seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?

23. But howsoever, said he, let me run. And he said unto
him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran Cushi.

23. Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one
bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, and
put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on
wood, and put no fire under:

23. Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges to my
lord the king of Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses,
if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.

23. Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah
upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from
me to speak unto thee?

23. I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine
iniquity.

23. The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.

23. Yet, LORD, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me:
forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight,
but let them be overthrown before thee; deal thus with them in the
time of thine anger.

23. Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? saith the
Lord GOD: and not that he should return from his ways, and live?

24. And the
servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.

24. And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up to
the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and
looked, and behold a man running alone.

24. And call ye on the name of your
gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD: and the God that
answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and
said, It is well spoken.

24. How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the
least of my master’s servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots
and for horsemen?

24. And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see
on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

24. Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my
righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

24. A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is
a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.

24. But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, and
committeth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that
the wicked man doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that he
hath done shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hath
trespassed, and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.

25. And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not
any dowry, but an hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged
of the king’s enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand
of the Philistines.

25. And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If
he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and
drew near.

25. And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one
bullock for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call
on the name of your gods, but put no fire under.

25. Am I now come up without the LORD against
this place to destroy it? The LORD said to me, Go up against this
land, and destroy it.

25. Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him
back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;

25. With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

25. Yet ye say, The way of the LORD is not equal. Hear now, O house
of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?

26. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David
well to be the king’s son in law: and the days were not expired.

26. And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman
called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone.
And the king said, He also bringeth tidings.

26. And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed
it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon,
saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that
answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.

26. Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebna, and Joah, unto
Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian language;
for we understand it: and talk not with us in the Jews’ language in
the ears of the people that are on the wall.

26. And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and
feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until
I return in peace.

26. With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself froward.

26. When
a righteous man turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth
iniquity, and dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shall
he die.

27. Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the
Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and
they gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king’s
son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.

27. And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost
is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, He
is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.

27. And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said,
Cry aloud: for he is a god; either he is talking, or he is pursuing,
or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be
awaked.

27. But Rabshakeh said unto them, Hath my master sent me to thy
master, and to thee, to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the
men which sit on the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink
their own piss with you?

27. And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath
not the LORD spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.

27. For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down
high looks.

27. Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness that
he hath committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall
save his soul alive.

28. And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that
Michal Saul’s daughter loved him.

28. And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he
fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said,
Blessed be the LORD thy God, which hath delivered up the men that
lifted up their hand against my lord the king.

28. And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with
knives and lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them.

28. Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a
loud voice in the Jews’ language, and spake, saying, Hear the word of
the great king, the king of Assyria:

28. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

28. For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my
darkness.

28. Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his
transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall
not die.

29. And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became
David’s enemy continually.

29. And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz
answered, When Joab sent the king’s servant, and me thy servant, I saw
a great tumult, but I knew not what it was.

29. And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied
until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there
was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.

29. Thus saith the king, Let
not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you out
of his hand:

29. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and I will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the
king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.

29. For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I
leaped over a wall.

29. Yet saith the house of Israel, The way of the LORD is not equal.
O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal?

30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to
pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely
than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.

30. And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here. And he
turned aside, and stood still.

30. And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all
the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD
that was broken down.

30. Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD,
saying, The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city shall not be
delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.

30. Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots
that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save
only with the king of Israel.

30. As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

30. Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one
according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD. Repent, and turn yourselves
from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.

31. And, behold, Cushi came; and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord the
king: for the LORD hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up
against thee.

31. And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the
tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the LORD came,
saying, Israel shall be thy name:

31. Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria,
Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me, and then
eat ye every man of his own vine, and every one of his fig tree, and
drink ye every one the waters of his cistern:

31. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they
compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD
helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.

31. For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?

31. Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye have
transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will
ye die, O house of Israel?

32. And the king said unto Cushi, Is the young man Absalom safe? And
Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise
against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.

32. And with the stones he built
an altar in the name of the LORD: and he made a trench about the
altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.

32. Until I come and
take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a
land of bread and vineyards, a land of oil olive and of honey, that ye
may live, and not die: and hearken not unto Hezekiah, when he
persuadeth you, saying, The LORD will deliver us.

32. For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots
perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again
from pursuing him.

32. It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way
perfect.

32. For I have no pleasure in the death
of him that dieth, saith the Lord GOD: wherefore turn yourselves, and
live ye.

33. And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the
gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my
son, my son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son,
my son!

33. And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and
laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pour
it on the burnt sacrifice, and on the wood.

33. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all his land
out of the hand of the king of Assyria?

33. And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his
chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the
host; for I am wounded.

33. He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet, and setteth me upon my high
places.

34. And he said, Do it the second time. And they did it the second
time.

And he said, Do it the third time. And they did it the third time.

34. Where are the gods of
Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and
Ivah? have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand?

34. And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel
stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even:
and about the time of the sun going down he died.

34. He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

35. And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the
trench also with water.

35. Who are
they among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their
country out of mine hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out
of mine hand?

35. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

36. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening
sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, LORD God of
Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art
God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all
these things at thy word.

36. But the people held their peace, and answered him
not a word: for the king’s commandment was, saying, Answer him not.

36. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

37. Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may know that thou
art the LORD God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again.

37. Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the
household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the
recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words
of Rabshakeh.

37. I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I
turn again till they were consumed.

38. Then the fire of the LORD fell, and consumed the burnt
sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up
the water that was in the trench.

38. I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are
fallen under my feet.

39. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and
they said, The LORD, he is the God; the LORD, he is the God.

39. For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast
subdued under me those that rose up against me.

40. And Elijah said unto them, Take the prophets of Baal; let not
one of them escape. And they took them: and Elijah brought them down
to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.

40. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might
destroy them that hate me.

41. And Elijah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there
is a sound of abundance of rain.

41. They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD,
but he answered them not.

42. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the
top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his
face between his knees,

42. Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did
cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

43. And said to his servant, Go up now, look
toward the sea. And he went up, and looked, and said, There is
nothing. And he said, Go again seven times.

43. Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and
thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not
known shall serve me.

44. And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold,
there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man’s hand. And he
said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down
that the rain stop thee not.

44. As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers
shall submit themselves unto me.

45. And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black
with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and
went to Jezreel.

45. The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close
places.

46. And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah; and he girded up his
loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.

46. The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my
salvation be exalted.

47. It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

48. He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up
above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the
violent man.

49. Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

50. Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.