1. Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was
afraid at the meeting of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone,
and no man with thee?

1. Then there was a famine in the days of David three years, year
after year; and David enquired of the LORD. And the LORD answered, It
is for Saul, and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites.

1. And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the
Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of
Ahab king of Samaria.

1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and reigned
fifty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Hephzibah.

1. And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number
Israel.

1. Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in his
stead.

1. But Job answered and said,

1. The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation
how greatly shall he rejoice!

1. The king’s heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the rivers of
water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.

1. The burden of the
desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so it
cometh from the desert, from a terrible land.

1. The word which came
unto Jeremiah from the LORD, when king Zedekiah sent unto him Pashur
the son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest,
saying,

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And David said unto Ahimelech the priest,
The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no
man know any thing of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I
have commanded thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such
a place.

2. And the king called the Gibeonites, and said unto them; (now the
Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of
the Amorites; and the children of Israel had sworn unto them: and Saul
sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah.)

2. And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, Give me thy vineyard, that I
may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house:
and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it; or, if it seem
good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money.

2. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, after
the abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD cast out before the
children of Israel.

2. And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go,
number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them
to me, that I may know it.

2. And he had brethren the sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehiel,
and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all these
were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.

2. Hear diligently my speech, and
let this be your consolations.

2. Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, and hast not withholden
the request of his lips. Selah.

2. Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the LORD
pondereth the hearts.

2. A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer
dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam:
besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease.

2. Enquire, I pray thee, of the LORD for us; for
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon maketh war against us; if so be that
the LORD will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that
he may go up from us.

2. Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy word toward
the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel,

3. Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of
bread in mine hand, or what there is present.

3. Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for
you? and wherewith shall I make the atonement, that ye may bless the
inheritance of the LORD?

3. And Naboth said to Ahab, The LORD forbid it me, that I should
give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee.

3. For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father
had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made a grove, as
did Ahab king of Israel; and worshipped all the host of heaven, and
served them.

3. And Joab answered, The LORD make his people an hundred times so
many more as they be: but, my lord the king, are they not all my
lord’s servants? why then doth my lord require this thing? why will
he be a cause of trespass to Israel?

3. And their father gave them great gifts of silver, and of gold,
and of precious things, with fenced cities in Judah: but the kingdom
gave he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn.

3. Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock
on.

3. For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou
settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

3. To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the LORD than
sacrifice.

3. Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs have taken hold
upon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed down at
the hearing of it; I was dismayed at the seeing of it.

3. Then said Jeremiah unto them, Thus shall ye say to Zedekiah:

3. And say
to the land of Israel, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I am against thee,
and will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and will cut off from
thee the righteous and the wicked.

4. And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread
under mine hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have
kept themselves at least from women.

4. And the Gibeonites said unto him, We
will have no silver nor gold of Saul, nor of his house; neither for us
shalt thou kill any man in Israel. And he said, What ye shall say,
that will I do for you.

4. And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the
word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him: for he had said, I
will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down
upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.

4. And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD
said, In Jerusalem will I put my name.

4. Nevertheless the king’s
word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went
throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.

4. Now when Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he
strengthened himself, and slew all his brethren with the sword, and
divers also of the princes of Israel.

4. As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should
not my spirit be troubled?

4. He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of
days for ever and ever.

4. An high look, and a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked,
is sin.

4. My heart panted, fearfulness affrighted me: the night of my
pleasure hath he turned into fear unto me.

4. Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Behold, I will turn back the
weapons of war that are in your hands, wherewith ye fight against the
king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans, which besiege you without
the walls, and I will assemble them into the midst of this city.

4. Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the
wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath against
all flesh from the south to the north:

5. And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth
women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out,
and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a
manner common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.

5. And they answered the king, The man that consumed us, and that
devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any
of the coasts of Israel,

5. But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said unto him, Why is thy
spirit so sad, that thou eatest no bread?

5. And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts
of the house of the LORD.

5. And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And
all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and an hundred thousand
men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten
thousand men that drew sword.

5. Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

5. Mark me, and be astonished, and lay
your hand upon your mouth.

5. His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou
laid upon him.

5. The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of
every one that is hasty only to want.

5. Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, ye
princes, and anoint the shield.

5. And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and
with a strong arm, even in anger, and in fury, and in great wrath.

5. That all flesh may know
that I the LORD have drawn forth my sword out of his sheath: it shall
not return any more.

6. So the priest gave him hallowed bread: for there was no bread
there but the shewbread, that was taken from before the LORD, to put
hot bread in the day when it was taken away.

6. Let seven men of his sons be delivered
unto us, and we will hang them up unto the LORD in Gibeah of Saul,
whom the LORD did choose. And the king said, I will give them.

6. And he said unto her,
Because I spake unto Naboth the Jezreelite, and said unto him, Give me
thy vineyard for money; or else, if it please thee, I will give thee
another vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give thee my
vineyard.

6. And he made his son pass through the fire, and observed times,
and used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards: he
wrought much wickedness in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to
anger.

6. But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them: for the king’s
word was abominable to Joab.

6. And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the
house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he wrought
that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD.

6. Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my
flesh.

6. For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him
exceeding glad with thy countenance.

6. The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to
and fro of them that seek death.

6. For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let him
declare what he seeth.

6. And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and
beast: they shall die of a great pestilence.

6. Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of thy loins;
and with bitterness sigh before their eyes.

7. Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day,
detained before the LORD; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the
chiefest of the herdmen that belonged to Saul.

7. But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of
Saul, because of the LORD’s oath that was between them, between David
and Jonathan the son of Saul.

7. And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the
kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let thine heart be merry:
I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.

7. And he set a graven image of the grove that he had made in the
house, of which the LORD said to David, and to Solomon his son, In
this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all tribes of
Israel, will I put my name for ever:

7. And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote
Israel.

7. Howbeit the LORD would not destroy the house of David, because of
the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give a
light to him and to his sons for ever.

7. Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in
power?

7. For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the
most High he shall not be moved.

7. The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them; because they refuse
to do judgment.

7. And he saw a chariot with a couple of horsemen, a chariot of
asses, and a chariot of camels; and he hearkened diligently with much
heed:

7. And afterward, saith the LORD, I will deliver Zedekiah king of
Judah, and his servants, and the people, and such as are left in this
city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into
the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of their
enemies, and into the hand of those that seek their life: and he shall
smite them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them,
neither have pity, nor have mercy.

7. And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore sighest thou?
that thou shalt answer, For the tidings; because it cometh: and every
heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit
shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water: behold, it cometh,
and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord GOD.

8. And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thine
hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my
weapons with me, because the king’s business required haste.

8. But the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah,
whom she bare unto Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons of
Michal the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel the son of
Barzillai the Meholathite:

8. So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, and sealed them with his
seal, and sent the letters unto the elders and to the nobles that were
in his city, dwelling with Naboth.

8. Neither will I make the feet
of Israel move any more out of the land which I gave their fathers;
only if they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded
them, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded
them.

8. And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have
done this thing: but now, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy
servant; for I have done very foolishly.

8. In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of
Judah, and made themselves a king.

8. Their seed is established in their sight with them, and
their offspring before their eyes.

8. Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall
find out those that hate thee.

8. The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his
work is right.

8. And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continually upon the
watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights:

8. And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the LORD; Behold,
I set before you the way of life, and the way of death.

8. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

9. And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom
thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a
cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that, take it: for there is
no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that; give
it me.

9. And he delivered them into the hands
of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the LORD:
and they fell all seven together, and were put to death in the days of
harvest, in the first days, in the beginning of barley harvest.

9. And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set
Naboth on high among the people:

9. But they hearkened not: and Manasseh seduced them to do more evil
than did the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the children of
Israel.

9. And the LORD spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying,

9. Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chariots
with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites which
compassed him in, and the captains of the chariots.

9. Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon
them.

9. Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger:
the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour
them.

9. It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a
brawling woman in a wide house.

9. And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, with a couple of horsemen.

And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the
graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground.

9. He that abideth in this city shall die by the sword, and by the
famine, and by the pestilence: but he that goeth out, and falleth to
the Chaldeans that besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be
unto him for a prey.

9. Son of man,
prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD; Say, A sword, a sword is
sharpened, and also furbished:

10. And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to
Achish the king of Gath.

10. And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth, and spread it
for her upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water
dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the
air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night.

10. And set two men, sons of
Belial, before him, to bear witness against him, saying, Thou didst
blaspheme God and the king. And then carry him out, and stone him,
that he may die.

10. And the LORD spake by his servants the prophets, saying,

10. Go and
tell David, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things:
choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.

10. So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this
day.

The same time also did Libnah revolt from under his hand; because he
had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers.

10. Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and
casteth not her calf.

10. Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed
from among the children of men.

10. The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no
favour in his eyes.

10. O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have
heard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto
you.

10. For I have set my face against this city for evil, and not for
good, saith the LORD: it shall be given into the hand of the king of
Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.

10. It is sharpened to make a sore
slaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then make
mirth? it contemneth the rod of my son, as every tree.

11. And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the
king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances,
saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?

11. And it was told David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the
concubine of Saul, had done.

11. And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who were
the inhabitants in his city, did as Jezebel had sent unto them, and as
it was written in the letters which she had sent unto them.

11. Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hath
done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were before him,
and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols:

11. So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD,
Choose thee

11. Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah and
caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and
compelled Judah thereto.

11. They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their
children dance.

11. For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous
device, which they are not able to perform.

11. When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when
the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.

11. The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman,
what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?

11. And touching the house of the king of Judah, say, Hear ye the
word of the LORD;

11. And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may be handled:
this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to give it into the hand
of the slayer.

12. And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid
of Achish the king of Gath.

12. And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of
Jonathan his son from the men of Jabeshgilead, which had stolen them
from the street of Bethshan, where the Philistines had hanged them,
when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboa:

12. They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.

12. Therefore thus
saith the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon
Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall
tingle.

12. Either three years’ famine; or three months to be
destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies
overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of the LORD, even the
pestilence, in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroying
throughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what
word I shall bring again to him that sent me.

12. And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying,
Thus saith the LORD God of David thy father, Because thou hast not
walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa
king of Judah,

12. They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the
organ.

12. Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt
make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.

12. The righteous man wisely considereth the house of the wicked:
but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness.

12. The watchman
said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire,
enquire ye: return, come.

12. O house of David, thus saith the LORD; Execute
judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the
hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn that
none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.

12. Cry and howl, son of man: for it shall be upon my people, it
shall be upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of the
sword shall be upon my people: smite therefore upon thy thigh.

13. And he changed his behaviour before them, and feigned himself
mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let
his spittle fall down upon his beard.

13. And he brought up
from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son; and
they gathered the bones of them that were hanged.

13. And there came in two men, children of Belial, and sat before
him: and the men of Belial witnessed against him, even against Naboth,
in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did blaspheme God and
the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him
with stones, that he died.

13. And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the
plummet of the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man
wipeth a dish, wiping it, and turning it upside down.

13. And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall now
into the hand of the LORD; for very great are his mercies: but let me
not fall into the hand of man.

13. But hast walked in the way of the kings of
Israel, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go a
whoring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast
slain thy brethren of thy father’s house, which were better than
thyself:

13. They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the
grave.

13. Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing
and praise thy power.

13. Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall
cry himself, but shall not be heard.

13. The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge,
O ye travelling companies of Dedanim.

13. Behold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and rock
of the plain, saith the LORD; which say, Who shall come down against
us? or who shall enter into our habitations?

13. Because it is a trial, and what if the sword contemn even the
rod? it shall be no more, saith the Lord GOD.

14. Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad:
wherefore then have ye brought him to me?

14. And the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son buried they in the
country of Benjamin in Zelah, in the sepulchre of Kish his father: and
they performed all that the king commanded. And after that God was
intreated for the land.

14. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is
dead.

14. And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliver
them into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and
a spoil to all their enemies;

14. So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell of
Israel seventy thousand men.

14. Behold, with a great plague will the LORD smite thy
people, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods:

14. Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not
the knowledge of thy ways.

14. A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the bosom
strong wrath.

14. The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought water to him that
was thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that fled.

14. But I will punish
you according to the fruit of your doings, saith the LORD: and I will
kindle a fire in the forest thereof, and it shall devour all things
round about it.

14. Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine hands
together, and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of
the slain: it is the sword of the great men that are slain, which
entereth into their privy chambers.

15. Have I need of mad
men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in my
presence? shall this fellow come into my house?

15. Moreover the Philistines had yet war again with Israel; and
David went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the
Philistines: and David waxed faint.

15. And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned,
and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the
vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give thee for
money: for Naboth is not alive, but dead.

15. Because they have done that which
was evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day
their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day.

15. And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he
was destroying, the LORD beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and
said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand.
And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan the
Jebusite.

15. And
thou shalt have great sickness by disease of thy bowels, until thy
bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.

15. What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit
should we have, if we pray unto him?

15. It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction shall be
to the workers of iniquity.

15. For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from
the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.

15. I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, that
their heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is made
bright, it is wrapped up for the slaughter.

16. And Ishbibenob, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight
of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass in weight, he
being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David.

16. And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that
Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to
take possession of it.

16. Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he had
filled Jerusalem from one end to another; beside his sin wherewith he
made Judah to sin, in doing that which was evil in the sight of the
LORD.

16. And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the LORD
stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his
hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of
Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.

16. Moreover the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the
Philistines, and of the Arabians, that were near the Ethiopians:

16. Lo, their good is not in
their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

16. The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall
remain in the congregation of the dead.

16. For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Within a year, according to
the years of an hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail:

16. Go thee one way or other, either on the right hand, or on the
left, whithersoever thy face is set.

17. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succoured him, and smote the
Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David sware unto him,
saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench
not the light of Israel.

17. And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,

17. Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and
his sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?

17. And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people
to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed;
but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray
thee, O LORD my God, be on me, and on my father’s house; but not on
thy people, that they should be plagued.

17. And they came up into Judah, and brake into it, and carried away all
the substance that was found in the king’s house, and his sons also,
and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz,
the youngest of his sons.

17. How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh
their destruction upon them! God distributeth sorrows in his anger.

17. He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine
and oil shall not be rich.

17. And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of the
children of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the LORD God of Israel
hath spoken it.

17. I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my fury
to rest: I the LORD have said it.

18. And it came to pass after this, that there was again a battle
with the Philistines at Gob: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Saph,
which was of the sons of the giant.

18. Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, which is in Samaria:
behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to
possess it.

18. And Manasseh slept with his
fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden
of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

18. Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David, that
David should go up, and set up an altar unto the LORD in the
threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

18. And after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with an
incurable disease.

18. They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm
carrieth away.

18. The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the
transgressor for the upright.

18. The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying,

19. And there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines, where
Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim, a Bethlehemite, slew the brother of
Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s
beam.

19. And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast
thou killed, and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him,
saying, Thus saith the LORD, In the place where dogs licked the blood
of Naboth shall dogs lick thy blood, even thine.

19. Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned two years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.

19. And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the
name of the LORD.

19. And it came to pass, that in process of time, after the end of
two years, his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness: so he died
of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the
burning of his fathers.

19. God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him,
and he shall know it.

19. It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious
and an angry woman.

19. Also,
thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king of
Babylon may come: both twain shall come forth out of one land: and
choose thou a place, choose it at the head of the way to the city.

20. And there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great
stature, that had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six
toes, four and twenty in number; and he also was born to the giant.

20. And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And
he answered, I have found thee: because thou hast sold thyself to work
evil in the sight of the LORD.

20. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his
father Manasseh did.

20. And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons with
him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.

20. Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he
reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired.
Howbeit they buried him in the city of David, but not in the
sepulchres of the kings.

20. His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the
wrath of the Almighty.

20. There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the
wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.

20. Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Rabbath of the
Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defenced.

21. And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimeah the
brother of David slew him.

21. Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will take away thy
posterity, and will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the
wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel,

21. And he walked in all the way that his father walked in, and
served the idols that his father served, and worshipped them:

21. And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went
out of the threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with his face to
the ground.

21. For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the
number of his months is cut off in the midst?

21. He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life,
righteousness, and honour.

21. For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the
head of the two ways, to use divination: he made his arrows bright, he
consulted with images, he looked in the liver.

22. These four were born to the giant in Gath, and fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand of his servants.

22. And will make
thine house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the
house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, for the provocation wherewith thou
hast provoked me to anger, and made Israel to sin.

22. And he forsook the LORD God of his fathers, and walked not in the way
of the LORD.

22. Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of this
threshingfloor, that I may build an altar therein unto the LORD: thou
shalt grant it me for the full price: that the plague may be stayed
from the people.

22. Shall any teach
God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high.

22. A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the
strength of the confidence thereof.

22. At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appoint
captains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice
with shouting, to appoint battering rams against the gates, to cast a
mount, and to build a fort.

23. And of Jezebel also spake the LORD, saying, The dogs shall eat
Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.

23. And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and slew the
king in his own house.

23. And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the
king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen also
for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the
wheat for the meat offering; I give it all.

23. One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.

23. Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from
troubles.

23. And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight,
to them that have sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance the
iniquity, that they may be taken.

24. Him that dieth of Ahab in the city the dogs shall eat; and him
that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat.

24. And the people of the land slew all them that had conspired
against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king
in his stead.

24. And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for
the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for the LORD,
nor offer burnt offerings without cost.

24. His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with
marrow.

24. Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud
wrath.

24. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have made your
iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are discovered,
so that in all your doings your sins do appear; because, I say, that
ye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand.

25. But there was none like unto Ahab, which did sell himself to
work wickedness in the sight of the LORD, whom Jezebel his wife
stirred up.

25. Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not
written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

25. So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold
by weight.

25. And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never
eateth with pleasure.

25. The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to
labour.

25. And thou, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come,
when iniquity shall have an end,

26. And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all
things as did the Amorites, whom the LORD cast out before the children
of Israel.

26. And he was buried in his sepulchre in the garden of Uzza: and Josiah
his son reigned in his stead.

26. And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings and peace offerings, and called upon the LORD; and he
answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.

26. They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover
them.

26. He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth
and spareth not.

26. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Remove
the diadem, and take off the crown: this shall not be the same: exalt
him that is low, and abase him that is high.

27. And it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent
his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted, and lay in
sackcloth, and went softly.

27. And the LORD commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again
into the sheath thereof.

27. Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye
wrongfully imagine against me.

27. The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, when
he bringeth it with a wicked mind?

27. I will overturn, overturn, overturn, it: and it shall be no
more, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it him.

28. And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,

28. At that time when David saw that the LORD had answered him in
the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.

28. For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? and where are the
dwelling places of the wicked?

28. A false witness shall
perish: but the man that heareth speaketh constantly.

28. And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD
concerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; even say
thou, The sword, the sword is drawn: for the slaughter it is
furbished, to consume because of the glittering:

29. Seest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? because he
humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days: but
in his son’s days will I bring the evil upon his house.

29. For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in the
wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering, were at that season
in the high place at Gibeon.

29. Have ye not asked them that go
by the way? and do ye not know their tokens,

29. A wicked man hardeneth his face: but as for the upright, he
directeth his way.

29. Whiles they see
vanity unto thee, whiles they divine a lie unto thee, to bring thee
upon the necks of them that are slain, of the wicked, whose day is
come, when their iniquity shall have an end.

30. But David could not go before it to enquire of God: for he was
afraid because of the sword of the angel of the LORD.

30. That the wicked is
reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the
day of wrath.

30. There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the
LORD.

30. Shall I cause it to return into his sheath? I will judge thee in
the place where thou wast created, in the land of thy nativity.

31. Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him
what he hath done?

31. The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is
of the LORD.

31. And I will pour out mine indignation upon thee, I will blow
against thee in the fire of my wrath, and deliver thee into the hand
of brutish men, and skilful to destroy.

32. Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and
shall remain in the tomb.

32. Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall be in the
midst of the land; thou shalt be no more remembered: for I the LORD
have spoken it.

33. The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man
shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him.

34. How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there
remaineth falsehood?