1. And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David
hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?

1. Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was
Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.

1. Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years
old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.

1. But Job answered and said,

1. Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have
trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.

1. As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not
seemly for a fool.

1. In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have
a strong city; salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.

1. In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king
of Judah came this word from the LORD, saying,

1. And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day of the
month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three
thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the
wilderness of Ziph.

2. And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn,
Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,

2. He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

2. How hast thou helped him
that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength?

2. Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.

2. As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse
causeless shall not come.

2. Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the
truth may enter in.

2. Thus saith the
LORD; Stand in the court of the LORD’s house, and speak unto all the
cities of Judah, which come to worship in the LORD’s house, all the
words that I command thee to speak unto them; diminish not a word:

2. Son of
man, because that Tyrus hath said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is
broken that was the gates of the people: she is turned unto me: I
shall be replenished, now she is laid waste:

3. And Saul pitched in the hill of Hachilah, which is before
Jeshimon, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw
that Saul came after him into the wilderness.

3. Elam
the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.

3. Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

3. How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast
thou plentifully declared the thing as it is?

3. For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in
thy truth.

3. A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the
fool’s back.

3. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on
thee: because he trusteth in thee.

3. If so be they will hearken, and turn every man from his evil way,
that I may repent me of the evil, which I purpose to do unto them
because of the evil of their doings.

3. Therefore thus saith
the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause many
nations to come up against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to come
up.

4. David therefore sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come
in very deed.

4. Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn,
Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and
Nethaneel the fifth.

4. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah did.

4. To whom hast thou
uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?

4. I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with
dissemblers.

4. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like
unto him.

4. Trust ye in the LORD for ever: for in the LORD JEHOVAH is
everlasting strength:

4. And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; If ye will not
hearken to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before you,

4. And they shall destroy the walls of Tyrus, and break down her
towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her like the
top of a rock.

5. And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched:
and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner,
the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the trench, and the people
pitched round about him.

5. Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for
God blessed him.

5. And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding
in the visions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him
to prosper.

5. Dead things are
formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof.

5. I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit
with the wicked.

5. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own
conceit.

5. For he bringeth down them that dwell on
high; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low, even to the
ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.

5. To
hearken to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent unto
you, both rising up early, and sending them, but ye have not
hearkened;

5. It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the
sea: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD: and it shall become a
spoil to the nations.

6. Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to
Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down
with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with
thee.

6. Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout
the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.

6. And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake
down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod,
and built cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.

6. Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering.

6. I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine
altar, O LORD:

6. He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the
feet, and drinketh damage.

6. The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and the
steps of the needy.

6. Then will I make this house like Shiloh, and will make
this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.

6. And her daughters which are in the field shall be slain by the
sword; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

7. So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold,
Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck in the ground
at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about him.

7. The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad,
whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.

7. And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the
Arabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.

7. He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the
earth upon nothing.

7. That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of
all thy wondrous works.

7. The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth
of fools.

7. The way of the just is uprightness: thou, most upright, dost
weigh the path of the just.

7. So the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah
speaking these words in the house of the LORD.

7. For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring upon Tyrus
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north, with
horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and companies, and much
people.

8. Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into
thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with
the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the
second time.

8. All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and their
brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and
two of Obededom.

8. And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread
abroad even to the entering in of Egypt; for he strengthened himself
exceedingly.

8. He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is
not rent under them.

8. LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place
where thine honour dwelleth.

8. As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth
honour to a fool.

8. Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have we waited for
thee; the desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of
thee.

8. Now it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking
all that the LORD had commanded him to speak unto all the people, that
the priests and the prophets and all the people took him, saying, Thou
shalt surely die.

8. He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the field: and he
shall make a fort against thee, and cast a mount against thee, and
lift up the buckler against thee.

9. And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch
forth his hand against the LORD’s anointed, and be guiltless?

9. And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.

9. Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and
at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified
them.

9. He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud
upon it.

9. Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:

9. As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable
in the mouths of fools.

9. With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my
spirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are in
the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.

9. Why hast thou prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, This
house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without an
inhabitant? And all the people were gathered against Jeremiah in the
house of the LORD.

9. And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with his
axes he shall break down thy towers.

10. David said furthermore, As the LORD liveth, the LORD shall smite him;
or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and
perish.

10. Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the
chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him
the chief;)

10. Also he built towers in the desert, and digged many wells: for
he had much cattle, both in the low country, and in the plains:
husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel:
for he loved husbandry.

10. He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and
night come to an end.

10. In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of
bribes.

10. The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool,
and rewardeth transgressors.

10. Let favour be shewed to the wicked, yet will he not learn
righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and
will not behold the majesty of the LORD.

10. When the princes of Judah heard these things, then they came up
from the king’s house unto the house of the LORD, and sat down in the
entry of the new gate of the LORD’s house.

10. By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover
thee: thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the
wheels, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gates, as
men enter into a city wherein is made a breach.

11. The LORD forbid that I should stretch forth mine hand against
the LORD’s anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is
at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go.

11. Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah
the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

11. Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out to
war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of
Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah,
one of the king’s captains.

11. The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof.

11. But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be
merciful unto me.

11. As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his
folly.

11. LORD, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: but they
shall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people; yea, the fire
of thine enemies shall devour them.

11. Then spake the priests and the prophets unto the princes and to
all the people, saying, This man is worthy to die; for he hath
prophesied against this city, as ye have heard with your ears.

11. With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all thy
streets: he shall slay thy people by the sword, and thy strong
garrisons shall go down to the ground.

12. So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul’s
bolster; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it,
neither awaked: for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from
the LORD was fallen upon them.

12. Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the
chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house
of the LORD.

12. The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men
of valour were two thousand and six hundred.

12. He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he
smiteth through the proud.

12. My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I
bless the LORD.

12. Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of
a fool than of him.

12. LORD, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought
all our works in us.

12. Then spake Jeremiah unto all the princes and to all the people,
saying, The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and against
this city all the words that ye have heard.

12. And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and make a prey of
thy merchandise: and they shall break down thy walls, and destroy thy
pleasant houses: and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thy
dust in the midst of the water.

13. Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of
an hill afar off; a great space being between them:

13. And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to
the house of their fathers, for every gate.

13. And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and
seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to
help the king against the enemy.

13. By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath
formed the crooked serpent.

13. The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in
the streets.

13. O LORD our God, other lords beside thee have had dominion over
us: but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.

13. Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey the
voice of the LORD your God; and the LORD will repent him of the evil
that he hath pronounced against you.

13. And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease; and the sound
of thy harps shall be no more heard.

14. And David
cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest
thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that
criest to the king?

14. And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his
son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out
northward.

14. And Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields,
and spears, and helmets, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to cast
stones.

14. Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is
heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand?

14. As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon
his bed.

14. They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they
shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and
made all their memory to perish.

14. As for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as seemeth good
and meet unto you.

14. And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be a
place to spread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the LORD
have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

15. And David said to Abner, Art not thou a
valiant man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore then hast
thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in
to destroy the king thy lord.

15. To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.

15. And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be
on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones
withal.

And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till
he was strong.

15. The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to
bring it again to his mouth.

15. Thou hast increased the nation, O LORD, thou hast increased the
nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed it far unto all the
ends of the earth.

15. But know ye for certain, that if ye put me to death, ye shall
surely bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, and
upon the inhabitants thereof: for of a truth the LORD hath sent me
unto you to speak all these words in your ears.

15. Thus saith the Lord GOD to Tyrus; Shall not the isles shake at
the sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is
made in the midst of thee?

16. This thing is not good that thou hast done. As the LORD liveth,
ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the LORD’s
anointed.

And now see where the king’s spear is, and the cruse of water that was
at his bolster.

16. To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate
Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.

16. But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his
destruction: for he transgressed against the LORD his God, and went
into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense.

16. The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can
render a reason.

16. LORD, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a
prayer when thy chastening was upon them.

16. Then said the princes and all the people unto the priests and to
the prophets; This man is not worthy to die: for he hath spoken to us
in the name of the LORD our God.

16. Then all the princes of the sea
shall come down from their thrones, and lay away their robes, and put
off their broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with
trembling; they shall sit upon the ground, and shall tremble at every
moment, and be astonished at thee.

17. And Saul knew David’s voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son
David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.

17. Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four
a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.

17. And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore
priests of the LORD, that were valiant men:

17. He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to
him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.

17. Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her
delivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in
thy sight, O LORD.

17. Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spake to all
the assembly of the people, saying,

17. And they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and say to thee,
How art thou destroyed, that wast inhabited of seafaring men, the
renowned city, which wast strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants,
which cause their terror to be on all that haunt it!

18. And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his
servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand?

18. At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.

18. And they withstood
Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee,
Uzziah, to burn incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons of
Aaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary;
for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honour from
the LORD God.

18. As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,

18. We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it
were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the
earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.

18. Micah the Morasthite
prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and spake to all the
people of Judah, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Zion shall be
plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the
mountain of the house as the high places of a forest.

18. Now shall
the isles tremble in the day of thy fall; yea, the isles that are in
the sea shall be troubled at thy departure.

19. Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his
servant. If the LORD have stirred thee up against me, let him accept
an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before
the LORD; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the
inheritance of the LORD, saying, Go, serve other gods.

19. These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore,
and among the sons of Merari.

19. Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to burn
incense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy even
rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD,
from beside the incense altar.

19. So
is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?

19. Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they
arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the
dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.

19. Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him at all to
death? did he not fear the LORD, and besought the LORD, and the LORD
repented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? Thus
might we procure great evil against our souls.

19. For thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall make thee a desolate
city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I shall bring up
the deep upon thee, and great waters shall cover thee;

20. Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the
face of the LORD: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea,
as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains.

20. And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house
of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.

20. And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon
him, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him
out from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because the LORD
had smitten him.

20. Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no
talebearer, the strife ceaseth.

20. Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy
doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until
the indignation be overpast.

20. And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of the
LORD, Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjathjearim, who prophesied
against this city and against this land according to all the words of
Jeremiah.

20. When I
shall bring thee down with them that descend into the pit, with the
people of old time, and shall set thee in the low parts of the earth,
in places desolate of old, with them that go down to the pit, that
thou be not inhabited; and I shall set glory in the land of the
living;

21. Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will
no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this
day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.

21. As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite
Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.

21. And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and
dwelt in a several house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the
house of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the king’s house,
judging the people of the land.

21. As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a
contentious man to kindle strife.

21. For, behold, the LORD cometh out of his place to punish the
inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall
disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.

21. And when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty men, and all
the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death: but
when Urijah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into Egypt;

21. I will make thee a terror, and thou shalt be no more:
though thou be sought for, yet shalt thou never be found again, saith
the Lord GOD.

22. And David answered and said, Behold the king’s spear! and let
one of the young men come over and fetch it.

22. The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were
over the treasures of the house of the LORD.

22. Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah
the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.

22. The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into
the innermost parts of the belly.

22. And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan the
son of Achbor, and certain men with him into Egypt.

23. The LORD render to every man his righteousness and his
faithfulness; for the LORD delivered thee into my hand to day, but I
would not stretch forth mine hand against the LORD’s anointed.

23. Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the
Uzzielites:

23. So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his
fathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings; for
they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

23. Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with
silver dross.

23. And they fetched forth Urijah out of Egypt, and brought him unto
Jehoiakim the king; who slew him with the sword, and cast his dead
body into the graves of the common people.

24. And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes,
so let my life be much set by in the eyes of the LORD, and let him
deliver me out of all tribulation.

24. And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses,
was ruler of the treasures.

24. He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit
within him;

24. Nevertheless the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with
Jeremiah, that they should not give him into the hand of the people to
put him to death.

25. Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou
shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail. So David
went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.

25. And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his
son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.

25. When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there
are seven abominations in his heart.

26. Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of
the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the
captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host,
had dedicated.

26. Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be
shewed before the whole congregation.

27. Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain
the house of the LORD.

27. Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a
stone, it will return upon him.

28. And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and
Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and
whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith,
and of his brethren.

28. A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a
flattering mouth worketh ruin.

29. Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward
business over Israel, for officers and judges.

30. And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of
valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of
Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD,
and in the service of the king.

31. Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the
Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the
fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there
were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.

32. And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven
hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the
Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every
matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.