1. And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered
their armies together for warfare, to fight with Israel. And Achish
said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me
to battle, thou and thy men.

1. And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the
tribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king
by course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over the
hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession of
the king, and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men,
and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.

1. Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
sixteen years in Jerusalem: but he did not that which was right in the
sight of the LORD, like David his father:

1. Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where
they fine it.

1. Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest,
if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.

1. The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold
as a lion.

1. Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose
glorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head of the fat
valleys of them that are overcome with wine!

1. And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign
of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, and in the fifth month,
that Hananiah the son of Azur the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spake
unto me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests and
of all the people, saying,

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant
can do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of
mine head for ever.

2. Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my
brethren, and my people: As for me, I had in mine heart to build an
house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the
footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building:

2. For he walked in the
ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for Baalim.

2. Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the
stone.

2. Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I
lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.

2. For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but
by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be
prolonged.

2. Behold, the Lord
hath a mighty and strong one, which as a tempest of hail and a
destroying storm, as a flood of mighty waters overflowing, shall cast
down to the earth with the hand.

2. Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the
God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.

2. Son of man,
say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thine
heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat
of God, in the midst of the seas; yet thou art a man, and not God,
though thou set thine heart as the heart of God:

3. Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried
him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that
had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.

3. But
God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name, because
thou hast been a man of war, and hast shed blood.

3. Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and
burnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the heathen
whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

3. He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection:
the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.

3. Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of
iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in
their hearts.

3. A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which
leaveth no food.

3. The crown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden
under feet:

3. Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the
vessels of the LORD’s house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took
away from this place, and carried them to Babylon:

3. Behold, thou art
wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that they can hide from thee:

4. And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and
pitched in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they
pitched in Gilboa.

4. Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of
my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to
be the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and
among the sons of my father he liked me to make me king over all
Israel:

4. He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and on
the hills, and under every green tree.

4. The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters
forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men.

4. Give them according to their deeds, and according to the
wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their
hands; render to them their desert.

4. They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the
law contend with them.

4. And the glorious beauty, which is on the head of the
fat valley, shall be a fading flower, and as the hasty fruit before
the summer; which when he that looketh upon it seeth, while it is yet
in his hand he eateth it up.

4. And I will
bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah,
with all the captives of Judah, that went into Babylon, saith the
LORD: for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.

4. With thy wisdom and with thine understanding thou hast gotten
thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures:

5. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and
his heart greatly trembled.

5. And of all my sons, (for the LORD hath given me many
sons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the
kingdom of the LORD over Israel.

5. Wherefore the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the
king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a great multitude
of them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also
delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a
great slaughter.

5. As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned
up as it were fire.

5. Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation
of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.

5. Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the LORD
understand all things.

5. In that day shall the LORD of hosts be for a crown of glory, and
for a diadem of beauty, unto the residue of his people,

5. Then the prophet Jeremiah said unto the prophet Hananiah in the
presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people that
stood in the house of the LORD,

5. By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thy
riches, and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches:

6. And when Saul enquired of the LORD, the LORD answered him not,
neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.

6. And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and
my courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his
father.

6. For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah an hundred and twenty
thousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they had
forsaken the LORD God of their fathers.

6. The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of
gold.

6. Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my
supplications.

6. Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that
is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.

6. And for a
spirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and for strength
to them that turn the battle to the gate.

6. Even the prophet Jeremiah said,
Amen: the LORD do so: the LORD perform thy words which thou hast
prophesied, to bring again the vessels of the LORD’s house, and all
that is carried away captive, from Babylon into this place.

6. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast set thine heart
as the heart of God;

7. Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a
familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and enquire of her. And his
servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar
spirit at Endor.

7. Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant
to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.

7. And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king’s
son, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was next
to the king.

7. There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture’s
eye hath not seen:

7. The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him,
and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my
song will I praise him.

7. Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion
of riotous men shameth his father.

7. But they also have erred through wine, and through strong drink
are out of the way; the priest and the prophet have erred through
strong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way
through strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.

7. Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears,
and in the ears of all the people;

7. Behold, therefore I will bring strangers
upon thee, the terrible of the nations: and they shall draw their
swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy
brightness.

8. And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he
went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and
he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring
me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.

8. Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the
LORD, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the
commandments of the LORD your God: that ye may possess this good land,
and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you for ever.

8. And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren
two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away
much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.

8. The lion’s whelps have not trodden it, nor the
fierce lion passed by it.

8. The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his
anointed.

8. He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he
shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.

8. For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is
no place clean.

8. The prophets that have been
before me and before thee of old prophesied both against many
countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of
pestilence.

8. They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shalt die the
deaths of them that are slain in the midst of the seas.

9. And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath
done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the
wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my
life, to cause me to die?

9. And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and
serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the LORD
searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the
thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou
forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.

9. But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded: and he
went out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them,
Behold, because the LORD God of your fathers was wroth with Judah, he
hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slain them in a rage
that reacheth up unto heaven.

9. He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the
mountains by the roots.

9. Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and
lift them up for ever.

9. He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his
prayer shall be abomination.

9. Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to
understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn
from the breasts.

9. The prophet which prophesieth of peace, when the word of the
prophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known, that the
LORD hath truly sent him.

9. Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? but
thou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hand of him that slayeth thee.

10. And Saul sware to her by the LORD,
saying, As the LORD liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee
for this thing.

10. Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an house
for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.

10. And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah and
Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not with
you, even with you, sins against the LORD your God?

10. He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every
precious thing.

10. Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he
shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good
things in possession.

10. For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line
upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little:

10. Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from off the prophet
Jeremiah’s neck, and brake it.

10. Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised by the hand of
strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

11. Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he
said, Bring me up Samuel.

11. Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and
of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper
chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place
of the mercy seat,

11. Now hear me
therefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye have taken captive
of your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.

11. He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is
hid bringeth he forth to light.

11. The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath
understanding searcheth him out.

11. For with stammering lips and another tongue will he speak to this
people.

11. And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying,
Thus saith the LORD; Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon from the neck of all nations within the space of two
full years. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way.

11. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

12. And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and
the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for thou
art Saul.

12. And the pattern of all that he had by the
spirit, of the courts of the house of the LORD, and of all the
chambers round about, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of
the treasuries of the dedicated things:

12. Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah
the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah
the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against them
that came from the war,

12. But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of
understanding?

12. When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when
the wicked rise, a man is hidden.

12. To whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause the
weary to rest; and this is the refreshing: yet they would not hear.

12. Then the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the prophet, after
that Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of the
prophet Jeremiah, saying,

12. Son of
man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him,
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and
perfect in beauty.

13. And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for what sawest thou?
And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.

13. Also for the courses of
the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of
the house of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the house
of the LORD.

13. And said unto them, Ye shall not bring
in the captives hither: for whereas we have offended against the LORD
already, ye intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass: for
our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.

13. Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it
found in the land of the living.

13. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso
confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.

13. But the word of the LORD was unto them precept upon precept,
precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little,
and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and be
broken, and snared, and taken.

13. Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus
saith the LORD; Thou hast broken the yokes of wood; but thou shalt
make for them yokes of iron.

13. Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God; every precious stone
was thy covering, the sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the
onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle,
and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was prepared
in thee in the day that thou wast created.

14. And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old
man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived
that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and
bowed himself.

14. He gave of gold by weight for things of gold, for all
instruments of all manner of service; silver also for all instruments
of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:

14. So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the
princes and all the congregation.

14. The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not
with me.

14. Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his
heart shall fall into mischief.

14. Wherefore hear the word of the LORD, ye scornful men, that rule
this people which is in Jerusalem.

14. For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; I have put
a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that they may serve
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they shall serve him: and I have
given him the beasts of the field also.

14. Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee
so: thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and
down in the midst of the stones of fire.

15. And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring
me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines
make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no
more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called
thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.

15. Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for their
lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps
thereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for the
candlestick, and also for the lamps thereof, according to the use of
every candlestick.

15. And the men which were expressed by name rose up, and took the
captives, and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them,
and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink,
and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon asses, and
brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brethren:
then they returned to Samaria.

15. It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed
for the price thereof.

15. As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over
the poor people.

15. Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and
with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass
through, it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our refuge,
and under falsehood have we hid ourselves:

15. Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hear
now, Hananiah; The LORD hath not sent thee; but thou makest this
people to trust in a lie.

15. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast
created, till iniquity was found in thee.

16. Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing the
LORD is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?

16. And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread, for
every table; and likewise silver for the tables of silver:

16. At that time did king Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria to
help him.

16. It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious
onyx, or the sapphire.

16. The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor:
but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.

16. Therefore thus saith
the Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried
stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believeth
shall not make haste.

16. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will cast thee from off
the face of the earth: this year thou shalt die, because thou hast
taught rebellion against the LORD.

16. By the multitude of thy merchandise they have filled the midst
of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will cast
thee as profane out of the mountain of God: and I will destroy thee, O
covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.

17. And the
LORD hath done to him, as he spake by me: for the LORD hath rent the
kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to thy neighbour, even to
David:

17. Also
pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for the
golden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason; and likewise
silver by weight for every bason of silver:

17. For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried
away captives.

17. The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it
shall not be for jewels of fine gold.

17. A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee
to the pit; let no man stay him.

17. Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the
plummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the
waters shall overflow the hiding place.

17. So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.

17. Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty, thou hast
corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I will cast thee to
the ground, I will lay thee before kings, that they may behold thee.

18. Because thou obeyedst not the voice of the LORD, nor
executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath the LORD done
this thing unto thee this day.

18. And for the altar of
incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the
chariot of the cherubims, that spread out their wings, and covered the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

18. The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the low country,
and of the south of Judah, and had taken Bethshemesh, and Ajalon, and
Gederoth, and Shocho with the villages thereof, and Timnah with the
villages thereof, Gimzo also and the villages thereof: and they dwelt
there.

18. No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price
of wisdom is above rubies.

18. Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse
in his ways shall fall at once.

18. And your covenant with death shall be disannulled, and your
agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge
shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.

18. Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine
iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I bring
forth a fire from the midst of thee, it shall devour thee, and I will
bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that
behold thee.

19. Moreover the LORD will also deliver Israel with thee into the
hand of the Philistines: and to morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with
me: the LORD also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of
the Philistines.

19. All this, said David, the LORD made me understand in writing by
his hand upon me, even all the works of this pattern.

19. For the LORD brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel;
for he made Judah naked, and transgressed sore against the LORD.

19. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be
valued with pure gold.

19. He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that
followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.

19. From the time that it goeth forth it shall take you: for morning
by morning shall it pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be a
vexation only to understand the report.

19. All they that know thee among the people shall be astonished at
thee: thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be any more.

20. Then Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore
afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in
him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.

20. And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good
courage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, even
my God, will be with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee,
until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of
the LORD.

20. And Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria came unto him, and
distressed him, but strengthened him not.

20. Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of
understanding?

20. A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh
haste to be rich shall not be innocent.

20. For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on
it: and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it.

20. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

21. And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled,
and said unto him, Behold, thine handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I
have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which
thou spakest unto me.

21. And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, even
they shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God: and
there shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship every willing
skilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and all the
people will be wholly at thy commandment.

21. For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of the LORD, and
out of the house of the king, and of the princes, and gave it unto the
king of Assyria: but he helped him not.

21. Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living,
and kept close from the fowls of the air.

21. To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread
that man will transgress.

21. For the LORD shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall be
wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, his strange
work; and bring to pass his act, his strange act.

21. Son of
man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesy against it,

22. Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of
thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat,
that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.

22. And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against
the LORD: this is that king Ahaz.

22. Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with
our ears.

22. He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not
that poverty shall come upon him.

22. Now therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong:
for I have heard from the Lord GOD of hosts a consumption, even
determined upon the whole earth.

22. And
say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Zidon; and
I will be glorified in the midst of thee: and they shall know that I
am the LORD, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be
sanctified in her.

23. But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants,
together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their
voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.

23. For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him:
and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them,
therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they
were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.

23. God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place
thereof.

23. He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he
that flattereth with the tongue.

23. Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.

23. For I will send into her pestilence, and blood into her streets;
and the wounded shall be judged in the midst of her by the sword upon
her on every side; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

24. And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and
killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened
bread thereof:

24. And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and
cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors
of the house of the LORD, and he made him altars in every corner of
Jerusalem.

24. For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the
whole heaven;

24. Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no
transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.

24. Doth the plowman plow all day to sow? doth he open and break the
clods of his ground?

24. And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto the house of
Israel, nor any grieving thorn of all that are round about them, that
despised them; and they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

25. And she brought it before Saul, and before his
servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that
night.

25. And in every several city of Judah he made high places to burn
incense unto other gods, and provoked to anger the LORD God of his
fathers.

25. To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth
the waters by measure.

25. He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that
putteth his trust in the LORD shall be made fat.

25. When he hath made plain the face thereof,
doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and cast
in the principal wheat and the appointed barley and the rie in their
place?

25. Thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall have gathered the house of
Israel from the people among whom they are scattered, and shall be
sanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, then shall they dwell
in their land that I have given to my servant Jacob.

26. Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, first and last,
behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

26. When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning
of the thunder:

26. He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh
wisely, he shall be delivered.

26. For his God doth instruct him to discretion, and doth
teach him.

26. And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall build houses, and
plant vineyards; yea, they shall dwell with confidence, when I have
executed judgments upon all those that despise them round about them;
and they shall know that I am the LORD their God.

27. And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
city, even in Jerusalem: but they brought him not into the sepulchres
of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

27. Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared
it, yea, and searched it out.

27. He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth
his eyes shall have many a curse.

27. For the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument,
neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitches
are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.

28. And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the LORD, that is
wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.

28. When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish,
the righteous increase.

28. Bread corn is bruised; because he will not ever be threshing it,
nor break it with the wheel of his cart, nor bruise it with his
horsemen.

29. This also cometh forth from the LORD of hosts, which is
wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.