1. Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek:
and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel.

1. Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation,
Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender,
and the work is great: for the palace is not for man, but for the LORD
God.

1. Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old,
and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s
name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.

1. Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,

1. Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and
strength.

1. He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly
be destroyed, and that without remedy.

1. Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye year
to year; let them kill sacrifices.

1. Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet
sent from Jerusalem unto the residue of the elders which were carried
away captives, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the
people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to
Babylon;

1. In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of the
month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by
thousands: but David and his men passed on in the rereward with
Achish.

2. Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the
gold for things to be made of gold, and the silver for things of
silver, and the brass for things of brass, the iron for things of
iron, and wood for things of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set,
glistering stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of precious
stones, and marble stones in abundance.

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that David his father had done.

2. Oh that I were
as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me;

2. Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD
in the beauty of holiness.

2. When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when
the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.

2. Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and
sorrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel.

2. (After that Jeconiah the king, and the queen, and the
eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the carpenters, and
the smiths, were departed from Jerusalem;)

2. Son of man, set
thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and
against all Egypt:

3. Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews
here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not
this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been
with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him
since he fell unto me unto this day?

3. Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God,
I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given
to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for
the holy house.

3. He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the
doors of the house of the LORD, and repaired them.

3. When his
candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through
darkness;

3. The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory
thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.

3. Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth
company with harlots spendeth his substance.

3. And I will camp against thee round about, and will lay siege
against thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee.

3. By the hand of Elasah
the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah
king of Judah sent unto Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon)
saying,

3. Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon
that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath said, My river is
mine own, and I have made it for myself.

4. And the princes of the
Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines
said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his
place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us
to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us: for wherewith
should he reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with the
heads of these men?

4. Even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and
seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the
houses withal:

4. And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them
together into the east street,

4. As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of
God was upon my tabernacle;

4. The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full
of majesty.

4. The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth
gifts overthroweth it.

4. And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the
ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice
shall be, as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground,
and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.

4. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, unto all
that are carried away captives, whom I have caused to be carried away
from Jerusalem unto Babylon;

4. But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of
thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of
the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick
unto thy scales.

5. Is not this David, of whom they sang one to
another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten
thousands?

5. The gold for things of gold, and the silver for
things of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands
of artificers. And who then is willing to consecrate his service this
day unto the LORD?

5. And said unto them, Hear me, ye
Levites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORD
God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy
place.

5. When the Almighty was yet with me,
when my children were about me;

5. The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh
the cedars of Lebanon.

5. A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.

5. Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall be like small dust,
and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff that passeth
away: yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly.

5. Build ye houses, and dwell in them;
and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them;

5. And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness, thee and all
the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou
shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee for
meat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven.

6. Then Achish called David, and said unto him, Surely,
as the LORD liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy
coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not
found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day:
nevertheless the lords favour thee not.

6. Then the chief of the fathers and princes of
the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds,
with the rulers of the king’s work, offered willingly,

6. For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil in
the eyes of the LORD our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned
away their faces from the habitation of the LORD, and turned their
backs.

6. When I washed my steps with
butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil;

6. He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like
a young unicorn.

6. In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the
righteous doth sing and rejoice.

6. Thou shalt be visited of the LORD of hosts with thunder, and with
earthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of
devouring fire.

6. Take ye wives, and
beget sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give your
daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; that ye
may be increased there, and not diminished.

6. And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD,
because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.

7. Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not
the lords of the Philistines.

7. And gave
for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and
ten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass
eighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.

7. Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the
lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the
holy place unto the God of Israel.

7. When I went out
to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street!

7. The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire.

7. The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked
regardeth not to know it.

7. And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel,
even all that fight against her and her munition, and that distress
her, shall be as a dream of a night vision.

7. And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be
carried away captives, and pray unto the LORD for it: for in the peace
thereof shall ye have peace.

7. When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and
rend all their shoulder: and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest,
and madest all their loins to be at a stand.

8. And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast
thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this
day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?

8. And they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the
treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the
Gershonite.

8. Wherefore the wrath of the LORD was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and
he hath delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, as
ye see with your eyes.

8. The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and
stood up.

8. The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh
the wilderness of Kadesh.

8. Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away
wrath.

8. It shall even be as when an hungry man dreameth, and, behold, he
eateth; but he awaketh, and his soul is empty: or as when a thirsty
man dreameth, and, behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and, behold,
he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the multitude of all
the nations be, that fight against mount Zion.

8. For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Let not your
prophets and your diviners, that be in the midst of you, deceive you,
neither hearken to your dreams which ye cause to be dreamed.

8. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring a sword
upon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee.

9. And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good
in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the
Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.

9. Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly,
because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: and
David the king also rejoiced with great joy.

9. For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and
our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.

9. The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their
mouth.

9. The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth
the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.

9. If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or
laugh, there is no rest.

9. Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they are
drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink.

9. For they prophesy falsely unto you in my name: I have not sent
them, saith the LORD.

9. And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall
know that I am the LORD: because he hath said, The river is mine, and
I have made it.

10. Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master’s
servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the
morning, and have light, depart.

10. Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all the congregation:
and David said, Blessed be thou, LORD God of Israel our father, for
ever and ever.

10. Now it is in mine heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of
Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.

10. The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the
roof of their mouth.

10. The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for
ever.

10. The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.

10. For the LORD hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep,
and hath closed your eyes: the prophets and your rulers, the seers
hath he covered.

10. For thus saith the LORD, That after seventy years be
accomplished at Babylon I will visit you, and perform my good word
toward you, in causing you to return to this place.

10. Behold, therefore I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and
I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the
tower of Syene even unto the border of Ethiopia.

11. So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to
return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up
to Jezreel.

11. Thine, O LORD is the greatness, and the power, and the glory,
and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in
the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted
as head above all.

11. My sons, be not now negligent: for the LORD hath chosen you to
stand before him, to serve him, and that ye should minister unto him,
and burn incense.

11. When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw
me, it gave witness to me:

11. The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless
his people with peace.

11. A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till
afterwards.

11. And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book
that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read
this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed:

11. For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD,
thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.

11. No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall
pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.

12. Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all;
and in thine hand is power and might; and in thine hand it is to make
great, and to give strength unto all.

12. Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the
son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites: and of the sons of
Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and of
the Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah:

12. Because I delivered the poor that
cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.

12. If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.

12. And
the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I
pray thee: and he saith, I am not learned.

12. Then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me,
and I will hearken unto you.

12. And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the
countries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that are
laid waste shall be desolate forty years: and I will scatter the
Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the
countries.

13. Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious
name.

13. And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sons
of Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah:

13. The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I
caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.

13. The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD
lighteneth both their eyes.

13. Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me
with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed
their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the
precept of men:

13. And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me
with all your heart.

13. Yet thus saith the Lord GOD; At the end of forty years will I
gather the Egyptians from the people whither they were scattered:

14. But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to
offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and
of thine own have we given thee.

14. And of the sons of Heman;
Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.

14. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a
robe and a diadem.

14. The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be
established for ever.

14. Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a
marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a
wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the
understanding of their prudent men shall be hid.

14. And I will be found of you, saith the LORD: and I will turn away
your captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from
all the places whither I have driven you, saith the LORD; and I will
bring you again into the place whence I caused you to be carried away
captive.

14. And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and will cause
them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their
habitation; and they shall be there a base kingdom.

15. For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were all
our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none
abiding.

15. And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and
came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the
LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.

15. I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame.

15. The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself
bringeth his mother to shame.

15. Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the
LORD, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and
who knoweth us?

15. Because ye have said, The LORD hath raised us up prophets in
Babylon;

15. It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it exalt
itself any more above the nations: for I will diminish them, that they
shall no more rule over the nations.

16. O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build
thee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all
thine own.

16. And the priests went into the inner part of the house of the
LORD, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they
found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the
LORD. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad into the brook
Kidron.

16. I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I
searched out.

16. When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but
the righteous shall see their fall.

16. Surely your turning of things upside down shall
be esteemed as the potter’s clay: for shall the work say of him that
made it, He made me not? or shall the thing framed say of him that
framed it, He had no understanding?

16. Know that thus saith the LORD of the king that sitteth
upon the throne of David, and of all the people that dwelleth in this
city, and of your brethren that are not gone forth with you into
captivity;

16. And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel,
which bringeth their iniquity to remembrance, when they shall look
after them: but they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

17. I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast
pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I
have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy
thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee.

17. Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify,
and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the LORD:
so they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days; and in the
sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.

17. And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of
his teeth.

17. Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give
delight unto thy soul.

17. Is it not yet a very little
while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the
fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?

17. Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will send
upon them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make
them like vile figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so evil.

17. And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the
first month, in the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came
unto me, saying,

18. O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep
this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy
people, and prepare their heart unto thee:

18. Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We have
cleansed all the house of the LORD, and the altar of burnt offering,
with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the
vessels thereof.

18. Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my
days as the sand.

18. Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth
the law, happy is he.

18. And in that day
shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind
shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness.

18. And I will persecute them with the sword, with the famine, and
with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be removed to all the
kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and an
hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations whither I have driven
them:

18. Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon
caused his army to serve a great service against Tyrus: every head was
made bald, and every shoulder was peeled: yet had he no wages, nor his
army, for Tyrus, for the service that he had served against it:

19. And give unto Solomon
my son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and
thy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for
the which I have made provision.

19. Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast
away in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and,
behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.

19. My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night
upon my branch.

19. A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he
understand he will not answer.

19. The meek also shall increase their joy in the LORD, and the poor
among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.

19. Because they have not hearkened to my words, saith the
LORD, which I sent unto them by my servants the prophets, rising up
early and sending them; but ye would not hear, saith the LORD.

19. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will give the land of
Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall take her
multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the
wages for his army.

20. And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD your
God.

And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, and
bowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king.

20. Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers of
the city, and went up to the house of the LORD.

20. My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand.

20. Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope
of a fool than of him.

20. For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is
consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off:

20. Hear ye therefore the word of the LORD, all ye of the captivity,
whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon:

20. I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour wherewith he
served against it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord GOD.

21. And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings unto the LORD, on the morrow after that day, even a thousand
bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink
offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel:

21. And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven
lambs, and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for
the sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of
Aaron to offer them on the altar of the LORD.

21. Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my
counsel.

21. He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall
have him become his son at the length.

21. That make
a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth
in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought.

21. Thus saith the LORD
of hosts, the God of Israel, of Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and of
Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, which prophesy a lie unto you in my
name; Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king
of Babylon; and he shall slay them before your eyes;

21. In that day will I cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud
forth, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of
them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

22. And did
eat and drink before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And
they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed
him unto the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.

22. So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood,
and sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the
rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the
lambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.

22. After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon
them.

22. An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in
transgression.

22. Therefore thus saith the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning
the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall his
face now wax pale.

22. And of them
shall be taken up a curse by all the captivity of Judah which are in
Babylon, saying, The LORD make thee like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom
the king of Babylon roasted in the fire;

23. Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of
David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.

23. And they brought forth the he goats for the sin offering before
the king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them:

23. And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their
mouth wide as for the latter rain.

23. A man’s pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the
humble in spirit.

23. But when he seeth his children, the work of mine hands, in the
midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One
of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.

23. Because they have
committed villany in Israel, and have committed adultery with their
neighbours’ wives, and have spoken lying words in my name, which I
have not commanded them; even I know, and am a witness, saith the
LORD.

24. And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons
likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.

24. And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with
their blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for
the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should
be made for all Israel.

24. If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my
countenance they cast not down.

24. Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth
cursing, and bewrayeth it not.

24. They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and
they that murmured shall learn doctrine.

24. Thus shalt thou also speak to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,

25. And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all
Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on
any king before him in Israel.

25. And he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals,
with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of
David, and of Gad the king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet: for so was
the commandment of the LORD by his prophets.

25. I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the
army, as one that comforteth the mourners.

25. The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in
the LORD shall be safe.

25. Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying,
Because thou hast sent letters in thy name unto all the people that
are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, and
to all the priests, saying,

26. Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.

26. And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the
priests with the trumpets.

26. Many seek the ruler’s favour; but every man’s judgment cometh
from the LORD.

26. The LORD hath made thee priest in
the stead of Jehoiada the priest, that ye should be officers in the
house of the LORD, for every man that is mad, and maketh himself a
prophet, that thou shouldest put him in prison, and in the stocks.

27. And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; seven
years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in
Jerusalem.

27. And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the
altar.

And when the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began also
with the trumpets, and with the instruments ordained by David king of
Israel.

27. An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is
upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.

27. Now therefore why hast thou not reproved Jeremiah of Anathoth,
which maketh himself a prophet to you?

28. And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour:
and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.

28. And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and
the trumpeters sounded: and all this continued until the burnt
offering was finished.

28. For therefore he sent
unto us in Babylon, saying, This captivity is long: build ye houses,
and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them.

29. Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are
written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the
prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,

29. And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that
were present with him bowed themselves, and worshipped.

29. And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of
Jeremiah the prophet.

30. With all his reign and
his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over
all the kingdoms of the countries.


The Second Book of the Chronicles

30. Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites
to sing praise unto the LORD with the words of David, and of Asaph the
seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads
and worshipped.

30. Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

31. Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated
yourselves unto the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thank
offerings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought in
sacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heart
burnt offerings.

31. Send
to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerning
Shemaiah the Nehelamite; Because that Shemaiah hath prophesied unto
you, and I sent him not, and he caused you to trust in a lie:

32. And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation
brought, was threescore and ten bullocks, an hundred rams, and two
hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.

32. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will punish Shemaiah the
Nehelamite, and his seed: he shall not have a man to dwell among this
people; neither shall he behold the good that I will do for my people,
saith the LORD; because he hath taught rebellion against the LORD.

33. And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three
thousand sheep.

34. But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all
the burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did help
them, till the work was ended, and until the other priests had
sanctified themselves: for the Levites were more upright in heart to
sanctify themselves than the priests.

35. And also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of
the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt offering.
So the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.

36. And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, that God had prepared
the people: for the thing was done suddenly.