1. Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said,

1. O lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot
displeasure.

1. In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the
prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith
the LORD, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.

1. Then Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of
Pashur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur the son of
Malchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken unto all the
people, saying,

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?

2. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

2. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto
the LORD,

2. Thus saith the LORD, He that remaineth in this
city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence: but
he that goeth forth to the Chaldeans shall live; for he shall have his
life for a prey, and shall live.

2. Son of man,
set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince of
Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him,

3. Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and
answer thou me.

3. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither
is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.

3. And said, Remember now, O LORD, I beseech thee, how I
have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have
done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

3. Thus saith the LORD, This city shall surely be given into the
hand of the king of Babylon’s army, which shall take it.

3. And say, Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince of
Meshech and Tubal:

4. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?
declare, if thou hast understanding.

4. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden
they are too heavy for me.

4. Then came the word of the LORD to Isaiah, saying,

4. Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech thee, let
this man be put to death: for thus he weakeneth the hands of the men
of war that remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in
speaking such words unto them: for this man seeketh not the welfare of
this people, but the hurt.

4. And I will turn thee back, and put hooks into
thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and
horsemen, all of them clothed with all sorts of armour, even a great
company with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords:

5. Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath
stretched the line upon it?

5. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.

5. Go, and
say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, I
have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto
thy days fifteen years.

5. Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand: for the
king is not he that can do any thing against you.

5. Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them; all of them with shield and
helmet:

6. Whereupon are the foundations
thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof;

6. I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day
long.

6. And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king
of Assyria: and I will defend this city.

6. Then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of
Malchiah the son of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison:
and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon there was no
water, but mire: so Jeremiah sunk in the mire.

6. Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah of the
north quarters, and all his bands: and many people with thee.

7. When the
morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?

7. For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no
soundness in my flesh.

7. And this shall be a sign unto thee from the LORD, that the LORD
will do this thing that he hath spoken;

7. Now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs which was
in the king’s house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon;
the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin;

7. Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all thy
company that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.

8. Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it
had issued out of the womb?

8. I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the
disquietness of my heart.

8. Behold, I will bring
again the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in the sun dial of
Ahaz, ten degrees backward. So the sun returned ten degrees, by which
degrees it was gone down.

8. Ebedmelech went
forth out of the king’s house, and spake to the king saying,

8. After many days thou shalt be visited: in the latter years thou
shalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword, and is
gathered out of many people, against the mountains of Israel, which
have been always waste: but it is brought forth out of the nations,
and they shall dwell safely all of them.

9. When I made the cloud the garment
thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it,

9. Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid
from thee.

9. The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and
was recovered of his sickness:

9. My
lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to
Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is
like to die for hunger in the place where he is: for there is no more
bread in the city.

9. Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm, thou shalt be like a
cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy bands, and many people with
thee.

10. And brake up
for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors,

10. My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of
mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

10. I said in the cutting off of my
days, I shall go to the gates of the grave: I am deprived of the
residue of my years.

10. Then the king commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Take
from hence thirty men with thee, and take up Jeremiah the prophet out
of the dungeon, before he die.

10. Thus saith the Lord GOD; It shall also come to pass, that at the
same time shall things come into thy mind, and thou shalt think an
evil thought:

11. And said,
Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud
waves be stayed?

11. My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my
kinsmen stand afar off.

11. I said, I shall not see the LORD, even the LORD, in the land of
the living: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the
world.

11. So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house of
the king under the treasury, and took thence old cast clouts and old
rotten rags, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.

11. And thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of
unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwell
safely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars
nor gates,

12. Hast thou commanded the morning since thy
days; and caused the dayspring to know his place;

12. They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they
that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all
the day long.

12. Mine age is departed, and is removed from me as a shepherd’s
tent: I have cut off like a weaver my life: he will cut me off with
pining sickness: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.

12. And Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said unto Jeremiah, Put now these
old cast clouts and rotten rags under thine armholes under the cords.
And Jeremiah did so.

12. To take a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thine
hand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited, and upon the
people that are gathered out of the nations, which have gotten cattle
and goods, that dwell in the midst of the land.

13. That it might
take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken
out of it?

13. But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that
openeth not his mouth.

13. I reckoned till morning, that, as a lion, so will he break all
my bones: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.

13. So they drew up Jeremiah with cords, and took him up out of the
dungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.

13. Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the
young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to take a
spoil? hast thou gathered thy company to take a prey? to carry away
silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?

14. It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as
a garment.

14. Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no
reproofs.

14. Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourn as a
dove: mine eyes fail with looking upward: O LORD, I am oppressed;
undertake for me.

14. Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took Jeremiah the prophet unto
him into the third entry that is in the house of the LORD: and the
king said unto Jeremiah, I will ask thee a thing; hide nothing from
me.

14. Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto Gog, Thus saith the
Lord GOD; In that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, shalt
thou not know it?

15. And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm
shall be broken.

15. For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

15. What shall I say? he hath both spoken unto me, and himself hath
done it: I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.

15. Then Jeremiah said unto Zedekiah, If I declare it unto thee,
wilt thou not surely put me to death? and if I give thee counsel, wilt
thou not hearken unto me?

15. And thou shalt come from thy place out of the
north parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them riding upon
horses, a great company, and a mighty army:

16. Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou
walked in the search of the depth?

16. For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me:
when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.

16. O LORD, by these things men live, and in all these things is the
life of my spirit: so wilt thou recover me, and make me to live.

16. So Zedekiah the king sware secretly
unto Jeremiah, saying, As the LORD liveth, that made us this soul, I
will not put thee to death, neither will I give thee into the hand of
these men that seek thy life.

16. And thou shalt come
up against my people of Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall
be in the latter days, and I will bring thee against my land, that the
heathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before
their eyes.

17. Have the gates of death been
opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?

17. For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.

17. Behold, for peace I had great bitterness: but thou hast in love
to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption: for thou hast cast
all my sins behind thy back.

17. Then said Jeremiah unto Zedekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God
of hosts, the God of Israel; If thou wilt assuredly go forth unto the
king of Babylon’s princes, then thy soul shall live, and this city
shall not be burned with fire; and thou shalt live, and thine house:

17. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Art thou he of whom I have spoken in
old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, which prophesied in
those days many years that I would bring thee against them?

18. Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou
knowest it all.

18. For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.

18. For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee:
they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.

18. But if thou wilt not go forth to the king of Babylon’s princes,
then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they
shall burn it with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of their hand.

18. And
it shall come to pass at the same time when Gog shall come against the
land of Israel, saith the Lord GOD, that my fury shall come up in my
face.

19. Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness,
where is the place thereof,

19. But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that
hate me wrongfully are multiplied.

19. The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day:
the father to the children shall make known thy truth.

19. And Zedekiah the king said unto Jeremiah, I am afraid of the
Jews that are fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their
hand, and they mock me.

19. For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken,
Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of
Israel;

20. That thou shouldest take it to the
bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house
thereof?

20. They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries;
because I follow the thing that good is.

20. The LORD was ready to save me: therefore we will sing my songs
to the stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of
the LORD.

20. But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseech
thee, the voice of the LORD, which I speak unto thee: so it shall be
well unto thee, and thy soul shall live.

20. So that the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the
heaven, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that
creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the
earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown
down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to
the ground.

21. Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or
because the number of thy days is great?

21. Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

21. For Isaiah had said, Let them take a lump of figs, and lay it
for a plaister upon the boil, and he shall recover.

21. But if thou refuse to go forth, this is the word that the LORD
hath shewed me:

21. And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my
mountains, saith the Lord GOD: every man’s sword shall be against his
brother.

22. Hast thou entered into
the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the
hail,

22. Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.

22. Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up to
the house of the LORD?

22. And, behold, all the women that are left in the
king of Judah’s house shall be brought forth to the king of Babylon’s
princes, and those women shall say, Thy friends have set thee on, and
have prevailed against thee: thy feet are sunk in the mire, and they
are turned away back.

22. And I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood; and
I will rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon the many people
that are with him, an overflowing rain, and great hailstones, fire,
and brimstone.

23. Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against
the day of battle and war?

23. So they shall bring out all thy wives and thy children to the
Chaldeans: and thou shalt not escape out of their hand, but shalt be
taken by the hand of the king of Babylon: and thou shalt cause this
city to be burned with fire.

23. Thus will I magnify myself, and sanctify myself; and I will be
known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am the
LORD.

24. By what way is the light parted,
which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?

24. Then said Zedekiah unto Jeremiah, Let no man know of these
words, and thou shalt not die.

25. Who hath divided
a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the
lightning of thunder;

25. But if the princes hear that I have talked with thee, and they
come unto thee, and say unto thee, Declare unto us now what thou hast
said unto the king, hide it not from us, and we will not put thee to
death; also what the king said unto thee:

26. To cause it to rain on the earth, where no
man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man;

26. Then thou shalt say
unto them, I presented my supplication before the king, that he would
not cause me to return to Jonathan’s house, to die there.

27. To satisfy
the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herb
to spring forth?

27. Then came all the princes unto Jeremiah, and asked him: and he
told them according to all these words that the king had commanded. So
they left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.

28. Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten
the drops of dew?

28. So Jeremiah abode in the court of the prison until the day that
Jerusalem was taken: and he was there when Jerusalem was taken.

29. Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary
frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?

30. The waters are hid as
with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.

31. Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the
bands of Orion?

32. Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season?
or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?

33. Knowest thou the
ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the
earth?

34. Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that
abundance of waters may cover thee?

35. Canst thou send lightnings,
that they may go and say unto thee, Here we are?

36. Who hath put
wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the
heart?

37. Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the
bottles of heaven,

38. When the dust groweth into hardness, and the
clods cleave fast together?

39. Wilt thou hunt the prey for the
lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions,

40. When they couch
in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait?

41. Who
provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God,
they wander for lack of meat.