1. And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto
your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.

1. And the LORD sent Nathan unto David. And he came unto him, and
said unto him, There were two men in one city; the one rich, and the
other poor.

1. And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem
to make him king.

1. In the seventh year of Jehu Jehoash began to reign; and forty
years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

1. Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, while he yet
kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish: and they were
among the mighty men, helpers of the war.

1. And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom,
and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the LORD, and all
Israel with him.

1. Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with
Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,

1. And Job answered and said,

1. Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from
among the children of men.

1. Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth
reproof is brutish.

1. Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil
days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no
pleasure in them;

1. And in that day thou shalt say, O LORD, I will praise thee:
though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thou
comfortedst me.

1. Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee: yet let me
talk with thee of thy judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked
prosper? wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously?

1. The word of the LORD also came unto me, saying,

1. And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which
standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of
trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same
time: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that
shall be found written in the book.

1. Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he
daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with
the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt.

2. And now, behold, the king walketh before you: and I am old and
grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I have walked
before you from my childhood unto this day.

2. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds:

2. And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was yet
in Egypt, heard of it, (for he was fled from the presence of king
Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt;)

2. And Jehoash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
his days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.

2. They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and
the left in hurling stones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even of
Saul’s brethren of Benjamin.

2. And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king Rehoboam
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had
transgressed against the LORD,

2. Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,

2. No doubt but ye are the people,
and wisdom shall die with you.

2. They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering
lips and with a double heart do they speak.

2. A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked
devices will he condemn.

2. While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or
the stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:

2. Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: for
the LORD JEHOVAH is my strength and my song; he also is become my
salvation.

2. Thou hast planted them, yea, they have taken root: they grow,
yea, they bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and far
from their reins.

2. Son of man,
thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to
see, and see not; they have ears to hear, and hear not: for they are a
rebellious house.

2. And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake,
some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.

2. The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish
Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he
recompense him.

3. Behold, here I am: witness against me before the LORD, and before
his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or
whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I
received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it
you.

3. But the
poor man had nothing, save one little ewe lamb, which he had bought
and nourished up: and it grew up together with him, and with his
children; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and
lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.

3. That they sent and called
him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake
unto Rehoboam, saying,

3. But the high places were not taken away: the people still
sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.

3. The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the
Gibeathite; and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah,
and Jehu the Antothite.

3. With twelve hundred chariots, and
threescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without number that
came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the
Ethiopians.

3. Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,

3. But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to
you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these?

3. The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that
speaketh proud things:

3. A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the
righteous shall not be moved.

3. In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong
men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few,
and those that look out of the windows be darkened,

3. Therefore with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of
salvation.

3. But thou, O LORD, knowest me: thou hast seen me, and tried mine
heart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and
prepare them for the day of slaughter.

3. Therefore, thou son of man, prepare thee stuff for removing, and
remove by day in their sight; and thou shalt remove from thy place to
another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though
they be a rebellious house.

3. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the
firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for
ever and ever.

3. He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength
he had power with God:

4. And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us,
neither hast thou taken ought of any man’s hand.

4. And there came a traveller unto the rich man, and he spared to
take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring
man that was come unto him; but took the poor man’s lamb, and dressed
it for the man that was come to him.

4. Thy father made our yoke grievous: now
therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy
yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.

4. And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the dedicated
things that is brought into the house of the LORD, even the money of
every one that passeth the account, the money that every man is set
at, and all the money that cometh into any man’s heart to bring into
the house of the LORD,

4. And Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and
over the thirty; and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad
the Gederathite,

4. And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and came
to Jerusalem.

4. Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah,

4. I am as one
mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him:
the just upright man is laughed to scorn.

4. Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our
own: who is lord over us?

4. A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh
ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.

4. And the doors
shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low,
and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters
of musick shall be brought low;

4. And in that day shall ye say, Praise the LORD, call upon his
name, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name
is exalted.

4. How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of every field
wither, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein? the beasts are
consumed, and the birds; because they said, He shall not see our last
end.

4. Then shalt thou bring forth thy stuff by day in their sight, as
stuff for removing: and thou shalt go forth at even in their sight, as
they that go forth into captivity.

4. But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to
the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be
increased.

4. Yea, he had power over the angel, and
prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him in
Bethel, and there he spake with us;

5. And he said unto them, The LORD is witness against you, and his
anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand.
And they answered, He is witness.

5. And David’s anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he
said to Nathan, As the LORD liveth, the man that hath done this thing
shall surely die:

5. And he said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again
to me. And the people departed.

5. Let the priests take it to them, every man
of his acquaintance: and let them repair the breaches of the house,
wheresoever any breach shall be found.

5. Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and
Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,

5. Then came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of
Judah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak,
and said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, and
therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.

5. Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,

5. He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in
the thought of him that is at ease.

5. For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now
will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that
puffeth at him.

5. The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the
wicked are deceit.

5. Also when they shall be afraid of
that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree
shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire
shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go
about the streets:

5. Sing unto the LORD; for he hath done excellent things: this is
known in all the earth.

5. If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee,
then how canst thou contend with horses? and if in the land of peace,
wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do in
the swelling of Jordan?

5. Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.

5. Then I Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the one
on this side of the bank of the river, and the other on that side of
the bank of the river.

5. Even the LORD God of hosts;
the LORD is his memorial.

6. And Samuel said unto the people, It is the LORD that advanced
Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of
Egypt.

6. And he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because
he did this thing, and because he had no pity.

6. And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before
Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that
I may answer this people?

6. But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of king
Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.

6. Elkanah, and Jesiah, and
Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites,

6. Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves;
and they said, The LORD is righteous.

6. Shemaiah,
and Joiarib, Jedaiah,

6. The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are
secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.

6. The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a
furnace of earth, purified seven times.

6. The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the
mouth of the upright shall deliver them.

6. Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the
golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or
the wheel broken at the cistern.

6. Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion: for great is the Holy
One of Israel in the midst of thee.

6. For even thy brethren, and the house of
thy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee; yea, they
have called a multitude after thee: believe them not, though they
speak fair words unto thee.

6. In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders, and carry
it forth in the twilight: thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not
the ground: for I have set thee for a sign unto the house of Israel.

6. And one said to the man clothed in linen, which was upon the
waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?

6. Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment and wait
on thy God continually.

7. Now therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before the
LORD of all the righteous acts of the LORD, which he did to you and to
your fathers.

7. And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the LORD
God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee
out of the hand of Saul;

7. And they spake unto him, saying, If
thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them,
and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy
servants for ever.

7. Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the other
priests, and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of the
house? now therefore receive no more money of your acquaintance, but
deliver it for the breaches of the house.

7. And Joelah, and
Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.

7. And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of
the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves;
therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some
deliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by
the hand of Shishak.

7. Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were
the chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.

7. But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls
of the air, and they shall tell thee:

7. Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this
generation for ever.

7. The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the
righteous shall stand.

7. Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit
shall return unto God who gave it.

7. I have forsaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I have
given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.

7. And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day,
as stuff for captivity, and in the even I digged through the wall with
mine hand; I brought it forth in the twilight, and I bare it upon my
shoulder in their sight.

7. And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was upon the waters
of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto
heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a
time, times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished to
scatter the power of the holy people, all these things shall be
finished.

7. He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he
loveth to oppress.

8. When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto the
LORD, then the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your
fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.

8. And I gave thee thy master’s house, and
thy master’s wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel
and of Judah; and if that had been too little, I would moreover have
given unto thee such and such things.

8. But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given
him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, and
which stood before him:

8. And the priests consented to receive no more money of the people,
neither to repair the breaches of the house.

8. And of the Gadites there separated themselves unto David into the
hold to the wilderness men of might, and men of war fit for the
battle, that could handle shield and buckler, whose faces were like
the faces of lions, and were as swift as the roes upon the mountains;

8. Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may know my
service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.

8. Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah,
and Mattaniah, which was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren.

8. Or speak to the earth, and
it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto
thee.

8. The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.

8. A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is
of a perverse heart shall be despised.

8. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher; all is vanity.

8. Mine heritage is unto me as a lion in the forest; it crieth out
against me: therefore have I hated it.

8. And in the morning came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,

8. And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what
shall be the end of these things?

8. And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out
substance: in all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that
were sin.

9. And when they forgat the LORD their God, he sold them into the
hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the
Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought
against them.

9. Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the LORD, to do
evil in his sight? thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword,
and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the
sword of the children of Ammon.

9. And he said unto them, What counsel give
ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make
the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?

9. But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lid
of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one cometh
into the house of the LORD: and the priests that kept the door put
therein all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.

9. Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,

9. So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away
the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the
king’s house; he took all: he carried away also the shields of gold
which Solomon had made.

9. Also Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were over against them
in the watches.

9. Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath
wrought this?

9. He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that
honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.

9. And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the
people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in
order many proverbs.

9. Mine heritage is unto me as a speckled bird, the birds round
about are against her; come ye, assemble all the beasts of the field,
come to devour.

9. Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, the rebellious house,
said unto thee, What doest thou?

9. And he said, Go thy way,
Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the
end.

9. And I that am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet
make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast.

10. And they cried unto the LORD, and said, We have sinned, because
we have forsaken the LORD, and have served Baalim and Ashtaroth: but
now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.

10. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thine house;
because thou hast despised me, and hast taken the wife of Uriah the
Hittite to be thy wife.

10. And the
young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus
shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy
father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus
shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my
father’s loins.

10. And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the
chest, that the king’s scribe and the high priest came up, and they
put up in bags, and told the money that was found in the house of the
LORD.

10. Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,

10. Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass, and
committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard, that kept the
entrance of the king’s house.

10. And Jeshua begat Joiakim, Joiakim also begat Eliashib, and
Eliashib begat Joiada,

10. In whose hand is the soul of every living thing,
and the breath of all mankind.

10. A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender
mercies of the wicked are cruel.

10. The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which
was written was upright, even words of truth.

10. Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my
portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolate
wilderness.

10. Say thou unto them, Thus saith
the Lord GOD; This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and all
the house of Israel that are among them.

10. Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the
wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; but
the wise shall understand.

10. I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied
visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets.

11. And the LORD sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and
Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every
side, and ye dwelled safe.

11. Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee
out of thine own house, and I will take thy wives before thine eyes,
and give them unto thy neighbour, and he shall lie with thy wives in
the sight of this sun.

11. And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will
add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will
chastise you with scorpions.

11. And they gave the money, being told, into the hands of them that
did the work, that had the oversight of the house of the LORD: and
they laid it out to the carpenters and builders, that wrought upon the
house of the LORD,

11. Attai the sixth,
Eliel the seventh,

11. And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard
came and fetched them, and brought them again into the guard chamber.

11. And Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathan
begat Jaddua.

11. Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat?

11. He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he
that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.

11. The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the
masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.

11. They have made it desolate, and being desolate it mourneth unto
me; the whole land is made desolate, because no man layeth it to
heart.

11. Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done
unto them: they shall remove and go into captivity.

11. And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away,
and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a
thousand two hundred and ninety days.

11. Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they
sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the
furrows of the fields.

12. And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon
came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over
us: when the LORD your God was your king.

12. For thou didst it secretly: but I will do this thing before all
Israel, and before the sun.

12. So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day,
as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day.

12. And to masons, and hewers of stone, and to
buy timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the house of the
LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.

12. Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,

12. And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from
him, that he would not destroy him altogether: and also in Judah
things went well.

12. And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the chief of the
fathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;

12. With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding.

12. The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the
righteous yieldeth fruit.

12. And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many
books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.

12. The spoilers are come upon all high places through the
wilderness: for the sword of the LORD shall devour from the one end of
the land even to the other end of the land: no flesh shall have peace.

12. And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder
in the twilight, and shall go forth: they shall dig through the wall
to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, that he see not the
ground with his eyes.

12. Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three
hundred and five and thirty days.

12. And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for
a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep.

13. Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye
have desired! and, behold, the LORD hath set a king over you.

13. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the LORD. And
Nathan said unto David, The LORD also hath put away thy sin; thou
shalt not die.

13. And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old
men’s counsel that they gave him;

13. Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of
silver, snuffers, basons, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of
silver, of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD:

13. Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.

13. So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned:
for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had
chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his
mother’s name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

13. Of Ezra,
Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;

13. With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and
understanding.

13. The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the
just shall come out of trouble.

13. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and
keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

13. They have sown wheat, but shall reap thorns: they have put
themselves to pain, but shall not profit: and they shall be ashamed of
your revenues because of the fierce anger of the LORD.

13. My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my
snare: and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans;
yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there.

13. But go thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest,
and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.




Hosea

13. And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a
prophet was he preserved.

14. If ye will fear the LORD, and serve him, and obey his voice, and
not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then shall both ye and
also the king that reigneth over you continue following the LORD your
God:

14. Howbeit, because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to
the enemies of the LORD to blaspheme, the child also that is born unto
thee shall surely die.

14. And spake to them after the
counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and
I will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but
I will chastise you with scorpions.

14. But they gave that to the workmen, and repaired therewith the
house of the LORD.

14. These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host: one of the
least was over an hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.

14. And he did evil, because he prepared not his heart to seek the
LORD.

14. Of Melicu, Jonathan; of
Shebaniah, Joseph;

14. Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he
shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening.

14. A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth:
and the recompence of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him.

14. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret
thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.




The Song of Solomon

14. Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbours, that touch
the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit;
Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the house
of Judah from among them.

14. And I will scatter toward every wind all that are about him to
help him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them.

14. Ephraim provoked him to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he
leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto
him.

15. But if ye will not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel
against the commandment of the LORD, then shall the hand of the LORD
be against you, as it was against your fathers.

15. And Nathan departed unto his house. And the LORD struck the
child that Uriah’s wife bare unto David, and it was very sick.

15. Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause
was from the LORD, that he might perform his saying, which the LORD
spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

15. Moreover they reckoned not with the men, into whose hand they
delivered the money to be bestowed on workmen: for they dealt
faithfully.

15. These are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when it
had overflown all his banks; and they put to flight all them of the
valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.

15. Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written
in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning
genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam
continually.

15. Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;

15. Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he
sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.

15. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that
hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.

15. And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them out I
will return, and have compassion on them, and will bring them again,
every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.

15. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall scatter
them among the nations, and disperse them in the countries.

16. Now therefore stand and see this great thing, which the LORD
will do before your eyes.

16. David therefore besought God for the child; and David fasted,
and went in, and lay all night upon the earth.

16. So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them,
the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David?
neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O
Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto
their tents.

16. The trespass money and sin money was not brought into the house
of the LORD: it was the priests’.

16. And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the hold
unto David.

16. And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.

16. Of
Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;

16. With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver
are his.

16. A fool’s wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth
shame.

16. And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the
ways of my people, to swear by my name, The LORD liveth; as they
taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built in the
midst of my people.

16. But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the
famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their
abominations among the heathen whither they come; and they shall know
that I am the LORD.

17. Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call unto the LORD, and
he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that your
wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of the LORD, in
asking you a king.

17. And the elders of his house arose, and went to him, to raise him
up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with
them.

17. But as for the children of Israel which dwelt in the cities of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

17. Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, and
took it: and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem.

17. And David went out to meet them, and answered and said unto
them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall be
knit unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, seeing
there is no wrong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look thereon,
and rebuke it.

17. Of Abijah, Zichri; of
Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai:

17. He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges
fools.

17. He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false
witness deceit.

17. But if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy
that nation, saith the LORD.

17. Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

18. So Samuel called unto the LORD; and the LORD sent thunder and
rain that day: and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.

18. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And
the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead: for
they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him,
and he would not hearken unto our voice: how will he then vex himself,
if we tell him that the child is dead?

18. Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute; and
all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. Therefore king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to
Jerusalem.

18. And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that
Jehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah,
had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was
found in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and in the king’s
house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria: and he went away from
Jerusalem.

18. Then the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains,
and he said, Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse:
peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thine helpers; for thy God
helpeth thee.

Then David received them, and made them captains of the band.

18. Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah,
Jehonathan;

18. He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a
girdle.

18. There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the
tongue of the wise is health.

18. Son of
man, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with trembling
and with carefulness;

19. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto
the LORD thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins
this evil, to ask us a king.

19. But when David saw that
his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead:
therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they
said, He is dead.

19. So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.

19. And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

19. And there fell some of Manasseh to David, when he came with the
Philistines against Saul to battle: but they helped them not: for the
lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, He
will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.

19. And of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;

19. He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.

19. The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying
tongue is but for a moment.

19. And say unto the people of the land, Thus
saith the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and of the land of
Israel; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and drink their
water with astonishment, that her land may be desolate from all that
is therein, because of the violence of all them that dwell therein.

20. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this
wickedness: yet turn not aside from following the LORD, but serve the
LORD with all your heart;

20. Then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed
himself, and changed his apparel, and came into the house of the LORD,
and worshipped: then he came to his own house; and when he required,
they set bread before him, and he did eat.

20. And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was
come again, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and
made him king over all Israel: there was none that followed the house
of David, but the tribe of Judah only.

20. And his servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and slew Joash in
the house of Millo, which goeth down to Silla.

20. As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and
Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and
Zilthai, captains of the thousands that were of Manasseh.

20. Of
Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;

20. He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the
understanding of the aged.

20. Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the
counsellors of peace is joy.

20. And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the
land shall be desolate; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

21. And turn ye not aside: for then should
ye go after vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver; for they are
vain.

21. Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou
hast done? thou didst fast and weep for the child, while it was alive;
but when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread.

21. And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the
house of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, an hundred and fourscore
thousand chosen men, which were warriors, to fight against the house
of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.

21. For Jozachar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of
Shomer, his servants, smote him, and he died; and they buried him with
his fathers in the city of David: and Amaziah his son reigned in his
stead.

21. And they helped David against the band of the rovers: for they
were all mighty men of valour, and were captains in the host.

21. Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of
Jedaiah, Nethaneel.

21. He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of
the mighty.

21. There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be
filled with mischief.

21. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

22. For the LORD will not forsake his people for his great name’s
sake: because it hath pleased the LORD to make you his people.

22. And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept:
for I said, Who can tell whether GOD will be gracious to me, that the
child may live?

22. But the word of God came unto Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

22. For at that time day by day there came to David to help him,
until it was a great host, like the host of God.

22. The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and
Jaddua, were recorded chief of the fathers: also the priests, to the
reign of Darius the Persian.

22. He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to
light the shadow of death.

22. Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly
are his delight.

22. Son of man,
what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, saying, The
days are prolonged, and every vision faileth?

23. Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the
LORD in ceasing to pray for you: but I will teach you the good and the
right way:

23. But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast?
can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return
to me.

23. Speak unto Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto
all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people,
saying,

23. And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed to
the war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to
him, according to the word of the LORD.

23. The sons of Levi, the chief of the fathers, were written in the
book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of
Eliashib.

23. He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the
nations, and straiteneth them again.

23. A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools
proclaimeth foolishness.

23. Tell them
therefore, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will make this proverb to cease,
and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but say unto
them, The days are at hand, and the effect of every vision.

24. Only fear the LORD, and serve him in truth with all
your heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you.

24. And David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went in unto her,
and lay with her: and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon:
and the LORD loved him.

24. Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go up, nor fight
against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his
house; for this thing is from me. They hearkened therefore to the word
of the LORD, and returned to depart, according to the word of the
LORD.

24. The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were six
thousand and eight hundred, ready armed to the war.

24. And the chief of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua
the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praise
and to give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of
God, ward over against ward.

24. He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the
earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no
way.

24. The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall
be under tribute.

24. For there shall be no more any vain vision nor flattering
divination within the house of Israel.

25. But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye
and your king.

25. And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he called his
name Jedidiah, because of the LORD.

25. Then Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein;
and went out from thence, and built Penuel.

25. Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valour for the war,
seven thousand and one hundred.

25. Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub,
were porters keeping the ward at the thresholds of the gates.

25. They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to
stagger like a drunken man.

25. Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word
maketh it glad.

25. For I am the LORD: I will speak, and the word that I shall speak
shall come to pass; it shall be no more prolonged: for in your days, O
rebellious house, will I say the word, and will perform it, saith the
Lord GOD.

26. And Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and
took the royal city.

26. And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to
the house of David:

26. Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.

26. These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of
Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the
priest, the scribe.

26. The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way
of the wicked seduceth them.

26. Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying.

27. And Joab sent messengers to David, and said, I have fought
against Rabbah, and have taken the city of waters.

27. If this people go up to do sacrifice in the
house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people
turn again unto their lord, even unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they
shall kill me, and go again to Rehoboam king of Judah.

27. And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were
three thousand and seven hundred;

27. And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the
Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep
the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with
singing, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps.

27. The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but
the substance of a diligent man is precious.

27. Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision
that he seeth is for many days to come, and he prophesieth of the
times that are far off.

28. Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp
against the city, and take it: lest I take the city, and it be called
after my name.

28. Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves of gold,
and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem:
behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of
Egypt.

28. And Zadok, a young man mighty
of valour, and of his father’s house twenty and two captains.

28. And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both
out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villages
of Netophathi;

28. In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof
there is no death.

28. Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; There shall
none of my words be prolonged any more, but the word which I have
spoken shall be done, saith the Lord GOD.

29. And David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah,
and fought against it, and took it.

29. And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan.

29. And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, three
thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept the ward of
the house of Saul.

29. Also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the
fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages
round about Jerusalem.

30. And he took their king’s crown from off his head, the weight
whereof was a talent of gold with the precious stones: and it was set
on David’s head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city in great
abundance.

30. And this thing became a sin: for the people went to worship
before the one, even unto Dan.

30. And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight
hundred, mighty men of valour, famous throughout the house of their
fathers.

30. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and
purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

31. And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them
under saws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and
made them pass through the brick-kiln: and thus did he unto all the
cities of the children of Ammon. So David and all the people returned
unto Jerusalem.

31. And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the
lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi.

31. And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, which were
expressed by name, to come and make David king.

31. Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and
appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof one
went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate:

32. And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the
fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah, and
he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the
calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the
high places which he had made.

32. And of the children of Issachar, which were men that had
understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do; the heads
of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their
commandment.

32. And
after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah,

33. So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel the
fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had
devised of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of
Israel: and he offered upon the altar, and burnt incense.

33. Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with
all instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: they
were not of double heart.

33. And
Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,

34. And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them with shield
and spear thirty and seven thousand.

34. Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah,
and Jeremiah,

35. And of the Danites expert in war twenty and eight thousand and
six hundred.

35. And certain of the priests’ sons with trumpets;
namely, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of
Mattaniah, the son of Michaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph:

36. And of Asher, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, forty
thousand.

36. And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarael, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai,
Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David
the man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them.

37. And on the other side of Jordan, of the Reubenites, and the
Gadites, and of the half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of
instruments of war for the battle, an hundred and twenty thousand.

37. And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they went
up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall,
above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward.

38. All these men of war, that could keep rank, came with a perfect
heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest
also of Israel were of one heart to make David king.

38. And the other company of them that gave thanks went over against
them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall, from
beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall;

39. And there they were with David three days, eating and drinking:
for their brethren had prepared for them.

39. And
from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the
fish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even unto
the sheep gate: and they stood still in the prison gate.

40. Moreover they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar and
Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and on
mules, and on oxen, and meat, meal, cakes of figs, and bunches of
raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep abundantly: for there
was joy in Israel.

40. So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house
of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me:

41. And the
priests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah,
and Hananiah, with trumpets;

42. And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and
Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer.
And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.

43. Also that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced: for
God had made them rejoice with great joy: the wives also and the
children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar
off.

44. And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for the
treasures, for the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes,
to gather into them out of the fields of the cities the portions of
the law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for the
priests and for the Levites that waited.

45. And both the singers and the porters kept the ward of their God,
and the ward of the purification, according to the commandment of
David, and of Solomon his son.

46. For in the days of David and Asaph of old there were chief of
the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God.

47. And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of
Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, every day
his portion: and they sanctified holy things unto the Levites; and the
Levites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.