1. Now it came to pass upon a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul
said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, and let us go over
to the Philistines’ garrison, that is on the other side. But he told
not his father.

1. Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king’s heart was
toward Absalom.

1. At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.

1. In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel
reigned Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah.

1. Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of
cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

1. So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city
of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet ten years.

1. Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.

1. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are
corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth
good.

1. Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it
down with her hands.

1. For the LORD will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose
Israel, and set them in their own land: and the strangers shall be
joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.

1. The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning
the dearth.

1. Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me, and sat before
me.

1. O israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by
thine iniquity.

2. And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a
pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him
were about six hundred men;

2. And Joab sent to Tekoah, and fetched thence a wise woman, and
said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner, and put on
now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a
woman that had a long time mourned for the dead:

2. And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise
thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and get
thee to Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, which told me
that I should be king over this people.

2. He was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

2. And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over
Israel, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his people
Israel.

2. And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD
his God:

2. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as
a shadow, and continueth not.

2. The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see
if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

2. He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that
is perverse in his ways despiseth him.

2. And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place:
and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD for
servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose
captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.

2. Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish; they are black
unto the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.

2. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously: so will we render the
calves of our lips.

3. And Ahiah, the son of Ahitub,
Ichabod’s brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the LORD’s
priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that
Jonathan was gone.

3. And come to the
king, and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her
mouth.

3. And take with thee ten loaves, and cracknels, and a cruse of
honey, and go to him: he shall tell thee what shall become of the
child.

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, yet not
like David his father: he did according to all things as Joash his
father did.

3. And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons
and daughters.

3. For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves:

3. And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me
into judgment with thee?

3. They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy:
there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

3. In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of
the wise shall preserve them.

3. And it shall come to pass in the day that the LORD shall give
thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard
bondage wherein thou wast made to serve,

3. And their nobles have sent their little ones to the waters: they
came to the pits, and found no water; they returned with their vessels
empty; they were ashamed and confounded, and covered their heads.

3. Son of man,
these men have set up their idols in their heart, and put the
stumblingblock of their iniquity before their face: should I be
enquired of at all by them?

3. Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither
will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in
thee the fatherless findeth mercy.

4. And between the passages, by which Jonathan sought to go over
unto the Philistines’ garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one
side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was
Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.

4. And when the woman of Tekoah spake to the king, she fell on her
face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king.

4. And Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and
came to the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see; for his eyes
were set by reason of his age.

4. Howbeit the high places were not taken away: as yet the people
did sacrifice and burnt incense on the high places.

4. Now these are the names of his children which he had in
Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

4. And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.

4. Who can bring a clean thing out of an
unclean? not one.

4. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my
people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

4. Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the
strength of the ox.

4. That thou shalt take up
this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the
oppressor ceased! the golden city ceased!

4. Because the ground is chapt, for there was no rain in the earth,
the plowmen were ashamed, they covered their heads.

4. Therefore speak unto them, and say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Every man of the house of Israel
that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock
of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet; I the LORD
will answer him that cometh according to the multitude of his idols;

4. I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine
anger is turned away from him.

5. The forefront of the one was situate northward over against
Michmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah.

5. And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, I
am indeed a widow woman, and mine husband is dead.

5. And the LORD said unto Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam
cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son; for he is sick: thus and
thus shalt thou say unto her: for it shall be, when she cometh in,
that she shall feign herself to be another woman.

5. And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his
hand, that he slew his servants which had slain the king his father.

5. And Ibhar,
and Elishua, and Elpalet,

5. Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

5. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with
thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;

5. There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of
the righteous.

5. A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter
lies.

5. The LORD hath broken
the staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.

5. Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and forsook it, because
there was no grass.

5. That I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because
they are all estranged from me through their idols.

5. I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and
cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

6. And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armour, Come,
and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be
that the LORD will work for us: for there is no restraint to the LORD
to save by many or by few.

6. And thy handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in
the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the
other, and slew him.

6. And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she
came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam; why
feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with heavy
tidings.

6. But the children of the murderers he slew not: according unto
that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, wherein the
LORD commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the
children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but every
man shall be put to death for his own sin.

6. And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

6. And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

6. Turn
from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling,
his day.

6. Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his
refuge.

6. A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is
easy unto him that understandeth.

6. He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that
ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.

6. And the wild asses did stand in the high places, they snuffed up
the wind like dragons; their eyes did fail, because there was no
grass.

6. Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces
from all your abominations.

6. His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive
tree, and his smell as Lebanon.

7. And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine
heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.

7. And, behold, the whole family is risen against thine handmaid,
and they said, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill
him, for the life of his brother whom he slew; and we will destroy the
heir also: and so they shall quench my coal which is left, and shall
not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth.

7. Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Forasmuch
as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my
people Israel,

7. He slew of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and took
Selah by war, and called the name of it Joktheel unto this day.

7. And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

7. Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

7. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.

7. Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the
LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice,
and Israel shall be glad.

7. Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not
in him the lips of knowledge.

7. The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into
singing.

7. O LORD, though our iniquities testify against us, do thou it for
thy name’s sake: for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against
thee.

7. For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that
sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me, and setteth up
his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity
before his face, and cometh to a prophet to enquire of him concerning
me; I the LORD will answer him by myself:

7. They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive
as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the
wine of Lebanon.

8. Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and
we will discover ourselves unto them.

8. And the king said unto the woman, Go to thine house, and I will
give charge concerning thee.

8. And rent the kingdom away from the house of David,
and gave it thee: and yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who
kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do
that only which was right in mine eyes;

8. Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son
of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the
face.

8. And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over
all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard
of it, and went out against them.

8. And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields
and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty men of valour.

8. Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock
thereof die in the ground;

8. The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly
of fools is deceit.

8. Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon,
saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.

8. O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble, why
shouldest thou be as a stranger in the land, and as a wayfaring man
that turneth aside to tarry for a night?

8. And I will set my face
against that man, and will make him a sign and a proverb, and I will
cut him off from the midst of my people; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD.

8. Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have
heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is
thy fruit found.

9. If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you; then we
will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.

9. And the woman of Tekoah said unto the king, My lord, O king, the
iniquity be on me, and on my father’s house: and the king and his
throne be guiltless.

9. But hast done evil above
all that were before thee: for thou hast gone and made thee other
gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me
behind thy back:

9. And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah,
saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in
Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed
by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

9. And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

9. And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host
of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Mareshah.

9. Yet through the scent of water it will
bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.

9. Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is
favour.

9. Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming:
it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the
earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the
nations.

9. Why shouldest thou be
as a man astonied, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet thou, O LORD,
art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not.

9. And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the
LORD have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand upon
him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.

9. Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just
shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.




Joel

10. But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up: for
the LORD hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be a sign
unto us.

10. And the king said, Whoever saith ought unto thee, bring him to
me, and he shall not touch thee any more.

10. Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the
house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam him that pisseth
against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel, and will
take away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as a man taketh away
dung, till it be all gone.

10. Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thine heart hath lifted thee
up: glory of this, and tarry at home: for why shouldest thou meddle to
thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?

10. And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the
Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD
said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.

10. Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

10. But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost,
and where is he?

10. The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not
intermeddle with his joy.

10. All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become
weak as we? art thou become like unto us?

10. Thus saith the LORD unto this people, Thus have they loved to
wander, they have not refrained their feet, therefore the LORD doth
not accept them; he will now remember their iniquity, and visit their
sins.

10. And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity: the
punishment of the prophet shall be even as the punishment of him that
seeketh unto him;

11. And both of them discovered themselves unto the garrison of the
Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth
out of the holes where they had hid themselves.

11. Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember the LORD thy
God, that thou wouldest not suffer the revengers of blood to destroy
any more, lest they destroy my son. And he said, As the LORD liveth,
there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth.

11. Him that dieth of Jeroboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and
him that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat: for the
LORD hath spoken it.

11. But Amaziah would not hear. Therefore Jehoash king of Israel
went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the
face at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.

11. So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. Then
David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the
breaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that place
Baalperazim.

11. And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have
no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail against thee.

11. As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood
decayeth and drieth up:

11. The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle
of the upright shall flourish.

11. Thy pomp is brought
down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spread
under thee, and the worms cover thee.

11. Then said the LORD unto me, Pray not for this people for their
good.

11. That the house of Israel may go no more astray
from me, neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions;
but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the Lord
GOD.

12. And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his
armourbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will shew you a thing.
And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come up after me: for the
LORD hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.

12. Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one
word unto my lord the king. And he said, Say on.

12. Arise thou therefore, get thee to thine own house: and when thy
feet enter into the city, the child shall die.

12. And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled
every man to their tents.

12. And when they had left their gods there, David gave a
commandment, and they were burned with fire.

12. So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
and the Ethiopians fled.

12. So man lieth down, and riseth not: till
the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of
their sleep.

12. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death.

12. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!
how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!

12. When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer
burnt offering and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I will
consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.

12. The word of the LORD came again to me, saying,

13. And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and
his armourbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his
armourbearer slew after him.

13. And the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a
thing against the people of God? for the king doth speak this thing as
one which is faulty, in that the king doth not fetch home again his
banished.

13. And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him: for he only of
Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some
good thing toward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam.

13. And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son
of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and came to Jerusalem,
and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the
corner gate, four hundred cubits.

13. And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the
valley.

13. And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto
Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and they carried away very much spoil.

13. O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest
keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me
a set time, and remember me!

13. Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that
mirth is heaviness.

13. For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I
will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the
mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north:

13. Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, the prophets say unto them,
Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will
give you assured peace in this place.

13. Son of man,
when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then will
I stretch out mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread
thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it:

14. And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armourbearer
made, was about twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land,
which a yoke of oxen might plow.

14. For we must needs die, and are as water spilt on the ground,
which cannot be gathered up again; neither doth God respect any
person: yet doth he devise means, that his banished be not expelled
from him.

14. Moreover the LORD shall raise him up a king over Israel, who
shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even now.

14. And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that
were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the
king’s house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.

14. Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Go
not up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them over
against the mulberry trees.

14. And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there
was exceeding much spoil in them.

14. If a man die, shall he live again?
all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.

14. The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a
good man shall be satisfied from himself.

14. I will
ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.

14. Then the LORD said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my
name: I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake
unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and divination, and a
thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart.

14. Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in
it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness,
saith the Lord GOD.

15. And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all
the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and
the earth quaked: so it was a very great trembling.

15. Now therefore that I am come to speak of this thing unto my lord
the king, it is because the people have made me afraid: and thy
handmaid said, I will now speak unto the king; it may be that the king
will perform the request of his handmaid.

15. For the LORD shall smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the
water, and he shall root up Israel out of this good land, which he
gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river,
because they have made their groves, provoking the LORD to anger.

15. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might,
and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in
the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

15. And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in the
tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: for
God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

15. They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.

15. Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire
to the work of thine hands.

15. The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh
well to his going.

15. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

15. Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that
prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and
famine shall not be in this land; By sword and famine shall those
prophets be consumed.

15. If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they
spoil it, so that it be desolate, that no man may pass through because
of the beasts:

16. And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and,
behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on beating down one
another.

16. For the king will hear, to deliver his handmaid out of the hand
of the man that would destroy me and my son together out of the
inheritance of God.

16. And he shall give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, who
did sin, and who made Israel to sin.

16. And Jehoash
slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of
Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.

16. David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote the
host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

16. For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my
sin?

16. A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool
rageth, and is confident.

16. They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider
thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did
shake kingdoms;

16. And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the
streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and they
shall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, nor
their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.

16. Though these three men were in it, as I live,
saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters;
they only shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.

17. Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now,
and see who is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold,
Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there.

17. Then thine handmaid said, The word of my lord the king shall now
be comfortable: for as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to
discern good and bad: therefore the LORD thy God will be with thee.

17. And Jeroboam’s wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: and
when she came to the threshold of the door, the child died;

17. And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

17. And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORD
brought the fear of him upon all nations.

17. My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up
mine iniquity.

17. He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked
devices is hated.

17. That made the world as a wilderness, and
destroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of his
prisoners?

17. Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes run
down with tears night and day, and let them not cease: for the virgin
daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very
grievous blow.

17. Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through
the land; so that I cut off man and beast from it:

18. And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the
ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.

18. Then the king answered and said unto the woman, Hide not from
me, I pray thee, the thing that I shall ask thee. And the woman said,
Let my lord the king now speak.

18. And
they buried him; and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word
of the LORD, which he spake by the hand of his servant Ahijah the
prophet.

18. And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

18. And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock
is removed out of his place.

18. The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with
knowledge.

18. All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie
in glory, every one in his own house.

18. If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with the
sword! and if I enter into the city, then behold them that are sick
with famine! yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into a
land that they know not.

18. Though these
three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall
deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only shall be delivered
themselves.

19. And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the
noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased:
and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thine hand.

19. And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all
this? And the woman answered and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord
the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from ought
that my lord the king hath spoken: for thy servant Joab, he bade me,
and he put all these words in the mouth of thine handmaid:

19. And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he
reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

19. Now they made a
conspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled to Lachish; but they
sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.

19. The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which
grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of
man.

19. The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the
righteous.

19. But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,
and as the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a
sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcase trodden
under feet.

19. Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul lothed Zion? why
hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? we looked for
peace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and behold
trouble!

19. Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my fury
upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast:

20. And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled
themselves, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man’s
sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.

20. To
fetch about this form of speech hath thy servant Joab done this thing:
and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to
know all things that are in the earth.

20. And the days which Jeroboam reigned were two and twenty years:
and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.

20. And they brought him on horses: and he was buried at Jerusalem
with his fathers in the city of David.

20. Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou
changest his countenance, and sendest him away.

20. The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath
many friends.

20. Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast
destroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shall
never be renowned.

20. We acknowledge, O LORD, our wickedness, and the
iniquity of our fathers: for we have sinned against thee.

20. Though Noah,
Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall
deliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their own
souls by their righteousness.

21. Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that
time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round
about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with
Saul and Jonathan.

21. And the king said unto Joab, Behold now, I have done this thing:
go therefore, bring the young man Absalom again.

21. And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was
forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD did choose out
of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his mother’s
name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

21. And all the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteen
years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.

21. His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are
brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.

21. He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy
on the poor, happy is he.

21. Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their
fathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the
face of the world with cities.

21. Do not abhor us, for thy name’s sake, do not disgrace the throne
of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us.

21. For thus saith the Lord GOD; How much more when I send my four
sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the
noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?

22. Likewise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in mount
Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also
followed hard after them in the battle.

22. And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and bowed himself, and
thanked the king: and Joab said, To day thy servant knoweth that I
have found grace in thy sight, my lord, O king, in that the king hath
fulfilled the request of his servant.

22. And Judah did evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked
him to jealousy with their sins which they had committed, above all
that their fathers had done.

22. He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

22. But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him
shall mourn.

22. Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be
to them that devise good.

22. For I will rise up against them, saith the LORD of hosts, and
cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saith
the LORD.

22. Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can cause
rain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O LORD our
God? therefore we will wait upon thee: for thou hast made all these
things.

22. Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be
brought forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall come forth
unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings: and ye shall be
comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even
concerning all that I have brought upon it.

23. So the LORD saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over
unto Bethaven.

23. So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to
Jerusalem.

23. For they also built them high places, and images, and groves, on
every high hill, and under every green tree.

23. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah
Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria,
and reigned forty and one years.

23. In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth
only to penury.

23. I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of
water: and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the
LORD of hosts.

23. And they shall comfort you, when ye see their ways and their
doings: and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that
I have done in it, saith the Lord GOD.

24. And the men of Israel were distressed that day: for Saul had
adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food
until evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the
people tasted any food.

24. And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, and let him
not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house, and saw not the
king’s face.

24. And there were also sodomites in the land: and they did
according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD cast
out before the children of Israel.

24. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

24. The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of
fools is folly.

24. The LORD of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought,
so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:

25. And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey
upon the ground.

25. But in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as
Absalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the crown of
his head there was no blemish in him.

25. And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem:

25. He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto
the sea of the plain, according to the word of the LORD God of Israel,
which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittai,
the prophet, which was of Gathhepher.

25. A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness
speaketh lies.

25. That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains
tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and
his burden depart from off their shoulders.

26. And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey
dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth: for the people feared
the oath.

26. And when he polled his head, (for it was at every year’s end
that he polled it: because the hair was heavy on him, therefore he
polled it:) he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels
after the king’s weight.

26. And he took
away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the
king’s house; he even took away all: and he took away all the shields
of gold which Solomon had made.

26. For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very
bitter: for there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helper
for Israel.

26. In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children
shall have a place of refuge.

26. This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and
this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.

27. But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with
the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his
hand, and dipped it in an honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth;
and his eyes were enlightened.

27. And unto Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter,
whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a fair countenance.

27. And king Rehoboam made in their stead brasen shields, and
committed them unto the hands of the chief of the guard, which kept
the door of the king’s house.

27. And the LORD said not that he would blot out the name of Israel
from under heaven: but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son
of Joash.

27. The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

27. For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it?
and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

28. Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly
charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth
any food this day. And the people were faint.

28. So Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem, and saw not the
king’s face.

28. And it was so, when the king went into the house of the LORD,
that the guard bare them, and brought them back into the guard
chamber.

28. Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and
his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascus, and Hamath,
which belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in the book
of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

28. In the multitude of people is the king’s honour: but in the want
of people is the destruction of the prince.

28. In
the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.

29. Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I
pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a
little of this honey.

29. Therefore Absalom sent for Joab, to have sent him to the king;
but he would not come to him: and when he sent again the second time,
he would not come.

29. Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

29. And Jeroboam slept
with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zachariah his son
reigned in his stead.

29. He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that
is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.

29. Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that
smote thee is broken: for out of the serpent’s root shall come forth a
cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.

30. How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to day of
the spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been
now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?

30. Therefore he said unto his servants, See, Joab’s field is near
mine, and he hath barley there; go and set it on fire. And Absalom’s
servants set the field on fire.

30. And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days.

30. A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness
of the bones.

30. And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall
lie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall
slay thy remnant.

31. And they
smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon: and the
people were very faint.

31. Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom unto his house, and said
unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire?

31. And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David. And his mother’s name was Naamah an
Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.

31. He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that
honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.

31. Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved:
for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone
in his appointed times.

32. And the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen,
and calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people did eat them
with the blood.

32. And
Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither,
that I may send thee to the king, to say, Wherefore am I come from
Geshur? it had been good for me to have been there still: now
therefore let me see the king’s face; and if there be any iniquity in
me, let him kill me.

32. The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous
hath hope in his death.

32. What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That
the LORD hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in
it.

33. Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against the
LORD, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have
transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.

33. So Joab came to the king, and told him: and when he had called
for Absalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the
ground before the king: and the king kissed Absalom.

33. Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but
that which is in the midst of fools is made known.

34. And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say
unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep,
and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against the LORD in eating
with the blood.

And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and
slew them there.

34. Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any
people.

35. And Saul built an altar unto the LORD: the same was the first
altar that he built unto the LORD.

35. The king’s favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is
against him that causeth shame.

36. And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night,
and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of
them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said
the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.

37. And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he
answered him not that day.

38. And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people:
and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.

39. For, as the LORD liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in
Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among
all the people that answered him.

40. Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and
Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said unto
Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.

41. Therefore Saul said unto the LORD God of Israel, Give a perfect
lot.

And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.

42. And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And
Jonathan was taken.

43. Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And
Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the
end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must die.

44. And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt
surely die, Jonathan.

45. And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath
wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as the LORD
liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for
he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan,
that he died not.

46. Then Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the
Philistines went to their own place.

47. So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his
enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of
Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against
the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.

48. And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered
Israel out of the hands of them that spoiled them.

49. Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchishua:
and the names of his two daughters were these; the name of the
firstborn Merab, and the name of the younger Michal:

50. And the
name of Saul’s wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name
of the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul’s uncle.

51. And Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was
the son of Abiel.

52. And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of
Saul: and when Saul saw any strong man, or any valiant man, he took
him unto him.