1. Samuel also said unto Saul, The LORD sent me to anoint thee to be
king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the
voice of the words of the LORD.

1. And it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared him
chariots and horses, and fifty men to run before him.

1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat
reigned Abijam over Judah.

1. In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began
Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.

1. And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a
place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

1. And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:

1. Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,

1. Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

1. A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up
anger.

1. The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid
waste, and brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab is
laid waste, and brought to silence;

1. Then said the LORD unto me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before
me, yet my mind could not be toward this people: cast them out of my
sight, and let them go forth.

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to
Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from
Egypt.

2. And Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate:
and it was so, that when any man that had a controversy came to the
king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and said, Of what
city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is of one of the tribes of
Israel.

2. Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. and his mother’s name was
Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

2. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned
two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jecholiah
of Jerusalem.

2. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the
Levites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and to
minister unto him for ever.

2. And
he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

2. Should a wise
man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?

2. He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and
speaketh the truth in his heart.

2. The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of
fools poureth out foolishness.

2. He is gone up to Bajith, and
to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, and
over Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard cut
off.

2. And it shall come to pass, if they say unto thee, Whither shall
we go forth? then thou shalt tell them, Thus saith the LORD; Such as
are for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword;
and such as are for the famine, to the famine; and such as are for the
captivity, to the captivity.

2. Son of man,
what is the vine tree more than any tree, or than a branch which is
among the trees of the forest?

3. Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have,
and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling,
ox and sheep, camel and ass.

3. And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right;
but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee.

3. And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done
before him: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as
the heart of David his father.

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah had done;

3. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up
the ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.

3. Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and without law.

3. Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he
can do no good?

3. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

3. The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and
the good.

3. In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on
the tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl,
weeping abundantly.

3. And I will appoint over them four kinds, saith the LORD: the
sword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and the fowls of the heaven, and
the beasts of the earth, to devour and destroy.

3. Shall wood be taken thereof to do
any work? or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?

4. And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in
Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.

4. Absalom said moreover, Oh that I were made judge in the land,
that every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I
would do him justice!

4. Nevertheless for David’s sake did the LORD his God give him a
lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish
Jerusalem:

4. Save that the
high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incense
still on the high places.

4. And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites:

4. But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

4. Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest
prayer before God.

4. In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth
not.

4. A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is
a breach in the spirit.

4. And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard
even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out;
his life shall be grievous unto him.

4. And I will cause them to be removed into all kingdoms of the
earth, because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for that
which he did in Jerusalem.

4. Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire devoureth
both the ends of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it meet for any
work?

5. And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.

5. And it was so, that when any man came nigh
to him to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and took him, and
kissed him.

5. Because David did that which was right in the eyes of
the LORD, and turned not aside from any thing that he commanded him
all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the
Hittite.

5. And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day
of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king’s son
was over the house, judging the people of the land.

5. Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundred
and twenty:

5. And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants
of the countries.

5. For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the
tongue of the crafty.

5. He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.

5. A fool despiseth his father’s instruction: but he that regardeth
reproof is prudent.

5. My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shall flee unto
Zoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith
with weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they
shall raise up a cry of destruction.

5. For who shall have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who shall
bemoan thee? or who shall go aside to ask how thou doest?

5. Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: how
much less shall it be meet yet for any work, when the fire hath
devoured it, and it is burned?

6. And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from
among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye shewed
kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of
Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.

6. And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the
king for judgment: so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.

6. And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of
his life.

6. And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

6. Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and his
brethren two hundred and twenty:

6. And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

6. Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips
testify against thee.

6. In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the
revenues of the wicked is trouble.

6. For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay is
withered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.

6. Thou
hast forsaken me, saith the LORD, thou art gone backward: therefore
will I stretch out my hand against thee, and destroy thee; I am weary
with repenting.

6. Therefore thus saith the Lord
GOD; As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have
given to the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.

7. And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah until thou comest to
Shur, that is over against Egypt.

7. And it came to pass after forty years, that Absalom said unto the
king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto
the LORD, in Hebron.

7. Now the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And
there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.

7. So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his
fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

7. Of the sons of Gershom; Joel the
chief and his brethren an hundred and thirty:

7. Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

7. Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before
the hills?

7. The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the
foolish doeth not so.

7. Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they
have laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows.

7. And I will fan them with a fan in the gates of the land; I will
bereave them of children, I will destroy my people since they return
not from their ways.

7. And I will set my face against them; they shall go out from one
fire, and another fire shall devour them; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD, when I set my face against them.

8. And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly
destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.

8. For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur in Syria,
saying, If the LORD shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I
will serve the LORD.

8. And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the
city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.

8. In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did
Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.

8. Of the sons of
Elizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred:

8. And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

8. Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou
restrain wisdom to thyself?

8. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but
the prayer of the upright is his delight.

8. For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howling
thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim.

8. Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas: I
have brought upon them against the mother of the young men a spoiler
at noonday: I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terrors
upon the city.

8. And I will make the land desolate, because they have committed a
trespass, saith the Lord GOD.

9. But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep,
and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was
good, and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was
vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.

9. And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to
Hebron.

9. And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned Asa
over Judah.

9. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his
fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of
Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

9. Of
the sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore:

9. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.

9. What knowest thou, that we know not?
what understandest thou, which is not in us?

9. The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he
loveth him that followeth after righteousness.

9. For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring
more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the
remnant of the land.

9. She that hath borne seven languisheth: she hath given up the
ghost; her sun is gone down while it was yet day: she hath been
ashamed and confounded: and the residue of them will I deliver to the
sword before their enemies, saith the LORD.

10. Then came the word of the LORD unto Samuel, saying,

10. But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel,
saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall
say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron.

10. And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his
mother’s name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

10. And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote
him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

10. Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an
hundred and twelve.

10. So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

10. With us are both
the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father.

10. Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he
that hateth reproof shall die.

10. Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man of strife
and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither lent on
usury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet every one of them doth
curse me.

11. It
repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turned back
from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it
grieved Samuel; and he cried unto the LORD all night.

11. And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerusalem, that
were called; and they went in their simplicity, and they knew not any
thing.

11. And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, as did
David his father.

11. And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they are written
in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

11. And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the
Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and
Amminadab,

11. And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

11. Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret
thing with thee?

11. Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the
hearts of the children of men?

11. The LORD said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verily
I will cause the enemy to entreat thee well in the time of evil and in
the time of affliction.

12. And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was
told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a
place, and is gone about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.

12. And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s
counsellor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he offered
sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong; for the people increased
continually with Absalom.

12. And he took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all
the idols that his fathers had made.

12. This was the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying,
Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth generation.
And so it came to pass.

12. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers
of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that
ye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that
I have prepared for it.

12. And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and with all their soul;

12. Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what
do thy eyes wink at,

12. A scorner loveth not one that
reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.

12. Shall iron break the northern iron and the steel?

13. And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou
of the LORD: I have performed the commandment of the LORD.

13. And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the
men of Israel are after Absalom.

13. And also Maachah his mother, even her he removed from being
queen, because she had made an idol in a grove; and Asa destroyed her
idol, and burnt it by the brook Kidron.

13. Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and
thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in
Samaria.

13. For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made a
breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

13. That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

13. That thou turnest thy spirit against God,
and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?

13. A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of
the heart the spirit is broken.

13. Thy
substance and thy treasures will I give to the spoil without price,
and that for all thy sins, even in all thy borders.

14. And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in
mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?

14. And David said unto all his servants that were with him at
Jerusalem, Arise, and let us flee; for we shall not else escape from
Absalom: make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring
evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword.

14. But the high places were not removed: nevertheless Asa’s heart
was perfect with the LORD all his days.

14. For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to
Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him,
and reigned in his stead.

14. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up
the ark of the LORD God of Israel.

14. And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

14. What is man, that
he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be
righteous?

14. The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but
the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.

14. And I will make thee to pass with thine enemies into a land
which thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, which
shall burn upon you.

15. And Saul
said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people
spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto the
LORD thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.

15. And the king’s servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants
are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint.

15. And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and
the things which himself had dedicated, into the house of the LORD,
silver, and gold, and vessels.

15. And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he
made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

15. And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their
shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the
word of the LORD.

15. And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all
their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

15. Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the
heavens are not clean in his sight.

15. All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a
merry heart hath a continual feast.

15. O LORD, thou knowest: remember me, and visit me, and revenge me
of my persecutors; take me not away in thy longsuffering: know that
for thy sake I have suffered rebuke.

16. Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the
LORD hath said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.

16. And the king went forth, and all his household after him. And
the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house.

16. And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all
their days.

16. Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the
coasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore
he smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he ripped
up.

16. And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their
brethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and
harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

16. And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook
Kidron.

16. How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh
iniquity like water?

16. Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure
and trouble therewith.

16. Thy words were found, and I did eat them; and thy word was unto
me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart: for I am called by thy name, O
LORD God of hosts.

17. And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast
thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the LORD anointed
thee king over Israel?

17. And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and
tarried in a place that was far off.

17. And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built
Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go out or come in to Asa king
of Judah.

17. In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began
Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in
Samaria.

17. So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their
brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

17. But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:
nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

17. I will shew thee, hear me; and that which
I have seen I will declare;

17. Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and
hatred therewith.

17. I sat not in the assembly of the mockers, nor rejoiced; I sat
alone because of thy hand: for thou hast filled me with indignation.

18. And the LORD sent thee on a journey, and
said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight
against them until they be consumed.

18. And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the
Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred
men which came after him from Gath, passed on before the king.

18. Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the
treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king’s
house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants: and king Asa
sent them to Benhadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of
Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

18. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,
who made Israel to sin.

18. And with them their
brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,
and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,
the porters.

18. And he brought into the house of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

18. Which wise men have told from their
fathers, and have not hid it:

18. A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger
appeaseth strife.

18. Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuseth
to be healed? wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar, and as waters
that fail?

19. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the LORD, but
didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of the LORD?

19. Then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou
also with us? return to thy place, and abide with the king: for thou
art a stranger, and also an exile.

19. There is a league between
me and thee, and between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent
unto thee a present of silver and gold; come and break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

19. And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahem
gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him
to confirm the kingdom in his hand.

19. So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound
with cymbals of brass;

19. And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

19. Unto whom alone the earth was
given, and no stranger passed among them.

19. The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the
way of the righteous is made plain.

19. Therefore thus saith the LORD, If thou return, then
will I bring thee again, and thou shalt stand before me: and if thou
take forth the precious from the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth: let
them return unto thee; but return not thou unto them.

20. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the
LORD, and have gone the way which the LORD sent me, and have brought
Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.

20. Whereas thou camest but yesterday, should I this day make thee
go up and down with us? seeing I go whither I may, return thou, and
take back thy brethren: mercy and truth be with thee.

20. So Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
the hosts which he had against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon,
and Dan, and Abelbethmaachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of
Naphtali.

20. And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty
men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the
king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not
there in the land.

20. And Zechariah, and Aziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and
Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth;

20. The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number
of years is hidden to the oppressor.

20. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his
mother.

20. And I will make thee unto this people a fenced brasen wall: and
they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against
thee: for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the
LORD.

21. But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of
the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto
the LORD thy God in Gilgal.

21. And Ittai answered the king, and said, As the LORD liveth, and
as my lord the king liveth, surely in what place my lord the king
shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant
be.

21. And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off
building of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.

21. And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

21. And Mattithiah, and
Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with
harps on the Sheminith to excel.

21. A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer
shall come upon him.

21. Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of
understanding walketh uprightly.

21. And I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I
will redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible.

22. And Samuel said, Hath the LORD as great delight in burnt
offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold,
to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.

22. And David said to Ittai, Go and pass over. And Ittai the Gittite
passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with
him.

22. Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah; none was
exempted: and they took away the stones of Ramah, and the timber
thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built with them
Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.

22. And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned
in his stead.

22. And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed
about the song, because he was skilful.

22. He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is
waited for of the sword.

22. Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude
of counsellors they are established.

23. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is
as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the
LORD, he hath also rejected thee from being king.

23. And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people
passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and
all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.

23. The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that
he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless in the time
of his old age he was diseased in his feet.

23. In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son
of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two
years.

23. And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

23. He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth
that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.

23. A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in
due season, how good is it!

24. And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have
transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and thy words: because I
feared the people, and obeyed their voice.

24. And lo Zadok also, and all the Levites were with him, bearing
the ark of the covenant of God: and they set down the ark of God; and
Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the
city.

24. And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers
in the city of David his father: and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in
his stead.

24. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

24. And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were
doorkeepers for the ark.

24. Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail
against him, as a king ready to the battle.

24. The way of life is above to the
wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.

25. Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with
me, that I may worship the LORD.

25. And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the
city: if I shall find favour in the eyes of the LORD, he will bring me
again, and shew me both it, and his habitation:

25. And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the
second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.

25. But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired
against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king’s
house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites:
and he killed him, and reigned in his room.

25. So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over
thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
the house of Obededom with joy.

25. For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth
himself against the Almighty.

25. The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will
establish the border of the widow.

26. And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou
hast rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD hath rejected thee
from being king over Israel.

26. But if he thus
say, I have no delight in thee; behold, here am I, let him do to me as
seemeth good unto him.

26. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

26. And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did,
behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of
Israel.

26. And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks and
seven rams.

26. He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of
his bucklers:

26. The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but
the words of the pure are pleasant words.

27. And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon the
skirt of his mantle, and it rent.

27. The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thou a seer?
return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy
son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.

27. And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar,
conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which
belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to
Gibbethon.

27. In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the
son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned
twenty years.

27. And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the
Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master
of the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of
linen.

27. Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and
maketh collops of fat on his flanks.

27. He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that
hateth gifts shall live.

28. And Samuel said unto him, The LORD hath rent the kingdom of
Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbour of thine,
that is better than thou.

28. See, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness, until there
come word from you to certify me.

28. Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him,
and reigned in his stead.

28. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

28. Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD
with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and
with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

28. And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man
inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.

28. The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of
the wicked poureth out evil things.

29. And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent: for he
is not a man, that he should repent.

29. Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to
Jerusalem: and they tarried there.

29. And it came to pass, when he reigned, that he smote all the
house of Jeroboam; he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he
had destroyed him, according unto the saying of the LORD, which he
spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite:

29. In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh,
and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and
carried them captive to Assyria.

29. And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came
to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out at
a window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in
her heart.

29. He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,
neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.

29. The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of
the righteous.

30. Then he said, I have sinned: yet honour me now, I pray thee,
before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with
me, that I may worship the LORD thy God.

30. And David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, and wept as he
went up, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot: and all the
people that was with him covered every man his head, and they went up,
weeping as they went up.

30. Because of the sins
of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, by his
provocation wherewith he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger.

30. And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the
son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his
stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.

30. He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his
branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.

30. The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report
maketh the bones fat.

31. So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped the LORD.

31. And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators
with Absalom. And David said, O LORD, I pray thee, turn the counsel of
Ahithophel into foolishness.

31. Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

31. And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold,
they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

31. Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall
be his recompence.

31. The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.

32. Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the
Amalekites. And Agag came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely
the bitterness of death is past.

32. And it came to pass, that when David was come to the top of the
mount, where he worshipped God, behold, Hushai the Archite came to
meet him with his coat rent, and earth upon his head:

32. And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all
their days.

32. In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel
began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.

32. It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall
not be green.

32. He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that
heareth reproof getteth understanding.

33. And Samuel said, As the sword hath made women childless, so
shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in
pieces before the LORD in Gilgal.

33. Unto whom
David said, If thou passest on with me, then thou shalt be a burden
unto me:

33. In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of
Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years.

33. Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerusha,
the daughter of Zadok.

33. He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast
off his flower as the olive.

33. The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before
honour is humility.

34. Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to
Gibeah of Saul.

34. But if thou return to the city, and say unto Absalom, I
will be thy servant, O king; as I have been thy father’s servant
hitherto, so will I now also be thy servant: then mayest thou for me
defeat the counsel of Ahithophel.

34. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

34. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD: he did
according to all that his father Uzziah had done.

34. For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire
shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.

35. And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death:
nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul: and the LORD repented that he
had made Saul king over Israel.

35. And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the
priests? therefore it shall be, that what thing soever thou shalt
hear out of the king’s house, thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathar
the priests.

35. Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed
and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate
of the house of the LORD.

35. They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly
prepareth deceit.

36. Behold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz
Zadok’s son, and Jonathan Abiathar’s son; and by them ye shall send
unto me every thing that ye can hear.

36. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

37. So Hushai David’s friend came into the city, and Absalom came
into Jerusalem.

37. In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the
king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.

38. And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in
his stead.