1. Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight
against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.

1. Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse
said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God
of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said,

1. And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of
Judah and of Jerusalem.

1. So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son
king over Israel.

1. And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took
the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the
son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of
Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

1. Then Job answered and said,

1. The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

1. When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what
is before thee:

1. The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid
waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of
Chittim it is revealed to them.

1. Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my
pasture! saith the LORD.

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. Therefore David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go and
smite these Philistines? And the LORD said unto David, Go, and smite
the Philistines, and save Keilah.

2. The Spirit of
the LORD spake by me, and his word was in my tongue.

2. And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men
of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the
priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great:
and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant
which was found in the house of the LORD.

2. And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the
priests and the Levites.

2. And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all
the cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they
came to Jerusalem.

2. Even to day is my complaint
bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning.

2. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
the still waters.

2. And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man
given to appetite.

2. Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants of
Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.

2. Therefore thus saith the LORD God of Israel against the pastors
that feed my people; Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away,
and have not visited them: behold, I will visit upon you the evil of
your doings, saith the LORD.

2. Son of man,
there were two women, the daughters of one mother:

3. And David’s men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in
Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of
the Philistines?

3. The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that
ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God.

3. And the king stood by a pillar, and made a covenant before the
LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments and his
testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and all their soul,
to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book.
And all the people stood to the covenant.

3. Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and
upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and
eight thousand.

3. And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the
house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king’s son shall
reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.

3. Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to
his seat!

3. He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name’s sake.

3. Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.

3. And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river,
is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations.

3. And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all countries
whither I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds;
and they shall be fruitful and increase.

3. And they
committed whoredoms in Egypt; they committed whoredoms in their youth:
there were their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats of
their virginity.

4. Then David enquired of the LORD yet again. And
the LORD answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will
deliver the Philistines into thine hand.

4. And he shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth,
even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of
the earth by clear shining after rain.

4. And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests
of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out
of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, and
for the grove, and for all the host of heaven: and he burned them
without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried the ashes of
them unto Bethel.

4. Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work
of the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:

4. This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering
on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of
the doors;

4. I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth
with arguments.

4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they
comfort me.

4. Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.

4. Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even the
strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children,
neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.

4. And I will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them: and
they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be
lacking, saith the LORD.

4. And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her
sister: and they were mine, and they bare sons and daughters. Thus
were their names; Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.

5. So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the
Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a
great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

5. Although my house be not so with God; yet he hath made with me an
everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is all
my salvation, and all my desire, although he make it not to grow.

5. And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah
had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of
Judah, and in the places round about Jerusalem; them also that burned
incense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets,
and to all the host of heaven.

5. Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praised
the LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praise
therewith.

5. And a third part shall be at the king’s house; and a
third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be
in the courts of the house of the LORD.

5. I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand
what he would say unto me.

5. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

5. Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches
certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward
heaven.

5. As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained
at the report of Tyre.

5. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto
David a righteous Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, and
shall execute judgment and justice in the earth.

5. And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted on
her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbours,

6. And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to
David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.

6. But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust
away, because they cannot be taken with hands:

6. And he brought out the grove from the house of the LORD, without
Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron,
and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon the
graves of the children of the people.

6. And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi,
namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

6. But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,
and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are
holy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.

6. Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would
put strength in me.

6. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.

6. Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither
desire thou his dainty meats:

6. Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.

6. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely:
and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OUR
RIGHTEOUSNESS.

6. Which were clothed
with blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men,
horsemen riding upon horses.

7. And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul
said, God hath delivered him into mine hand; for he is shut in, by
entering into a town that hath gates and bars.

7. But the man that
shall touch them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear;
and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place.

7. And he brake down the houses of the sodomites, that were by the
house of the LORD, where the women wove hangings for the grove.

7. Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.

7. And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man
with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into the
house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he
cometh in, and when he goeth out.

7. There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be
delivered for ever from my judge.

7. For as he thinketh in his heart, so
is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with
thee.

7. Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her
own feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn.

7. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that they shall
no more say, The LORD liveth, which brought up the children of Israel
out of the land of Egypt;

7. Thus she committed her whoredoms with them, with all them that
were the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom she doted: with
all their idols she defiled herself.

8. And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to
Keilah, to besiege David and his men.

8. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had: The
Tachmonite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains; the same
was Adino the Eznite: he lift up his spear against eight hundred, whom
he slew at one time.

8. And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and
defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from
Geba to Beersheba, and brake down the high places of the gates that
were in the entering in of the gate of Joshua the governor of the
city, which were on a man’s left hand at the gate of the city.

8. The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel,
three.

8. So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that
Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that
were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on the
sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

8. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I
cannot perceive him:

8. The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose
thy sweet words.

8. Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city,
whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of
the earth?

8. But, The LORD liveth, which brought up
and which led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north
country, and from all countries whither I had driven them; and they
shall dwell in their own land.

8. Neither left she her whoredoms brought from Egypt: for in her
youth they lay with her, and they bruised the breasts of her
virginity, and poured their whoredom upon her.

9. And David knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him;
and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.

9. And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the
three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that
were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were
gone away:

9. Nevertheless the priests of the high places came not up to the
altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they did eat of the unleavened
bread among their brethren.

9. The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three.
These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

9. Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of
hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king
David’s, which were in the house of God.

9. On the left hand, where he doth work, but I
cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot
see him:

9. Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom
of thy words.

9. The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the
pride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of
the earth.

9. Mine heart within me is broken because of the prophets; all my
bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine hath
overcome, because of the LORD, and because of the words of his
holiness.

9. Wherefore I have delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into
the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.

10. Then said David, O LORD God of Israel, thy servant hath
certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the
city for my sake.

10. He arose, and smote the Philistines until his hand
was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword: and the LORD wrought a
great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to
spoil.

10. And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children
of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass
through the fire to Molech.

10. And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and
Beriah.

These four were the sons of Shimei.

10. And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his
hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the
temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.

10. But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried
me, I shall come forth as gold.

10. Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of
the fatherless:

10. Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there
is no more strength.

10. For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the
land mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and
their course is evil, and their force is not right.

10. These discovered her nakedness: they took her sons and her
daughters, and slew her with the sword: and she became famous among
women; for they had executed judgment upon her.

11. Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul
come down, as thy servant hath heard? O LORD God of Israel, I beseech
thee, tell thy servant. And the LORD said, He will come down.

11. And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. And the
Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a piece of
ground full of lentiles: and the people fled from the Philistines.

11. And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to
the sun, at the entering in of the house of the LORD, by the chamber
of Nathanmelech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, and burned
the chariots of the sun with fire.

11. And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and
Beriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,
according to their father’s house.

11. Then they brought out the king’s son, and put upon him the
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and
his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

11. My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not
declined.

11. For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead
their cause with thee.

11. He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms:
the LORD hath given a commandment against the merchant city, to
destroy the strong holds thereof.

11. For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I
found their wickedness, saith the LORD.

11. And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was more corrupt in
her inordinate love than she, and in her whoredoms more than her
sister in her whoredoms.

12. Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men
into the hand of Saul? And the LORD said, They will deliver thee up.

12. But he stood in the midst of the ground, and defended it, and
slew the Philistines: and the LORD wrought a great victory.

12. And the altars that were on the top of the upper chamber of
Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh
had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, did the king beat
down, and brake them down from thence, and cast the dust of them into
the brook Kidron.

12. The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

12. Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and
praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:

12. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I
have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.

12. Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words
of knowledge.

12. And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed
virgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also
shalt thou have no rest.

12. Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the
darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bring
evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.

12. She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbours, captains and rulers
clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of them
desirable young men.

13. Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and
departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it
was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go
forth.

13. And three of the thirty chief went down, and came to David in
the harvest time unto the cave of Adullam: and the troop of the
Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim.

13. And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on
the right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king of
Israel had builded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, and
for Chemosh the abomination of the Moabites, and for Milcom the
abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.

13. The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,
that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for
ever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and to
bless in his name for ever.

13. And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the
people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the
singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise.
Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

13. But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul
desireth, even that he doeth.

13. Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him
with the rod, he shall not die.

13. Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the
Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up
the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought
it to ruin.

13. And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they
prophesied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.

13. Then I saw that she was defiled, that they took both one way,

14. And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained
in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every
day, but God delivered him not into his hand.

14. And David was then in an hold, and the garrison of the
Philistines was then in Bethlehem.

14. And he brake in pieces the images, and cut down the groves, and
filled their places with the bones of men.

14. Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the
tribe of Levi.

14. Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds
that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For
the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.

14. For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many
such things are with him.

14. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul
from hell.

14. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.

14. I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing:
they commit adultery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the hands
of evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness; they are all
of them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.

14. And that she increased her whoredoms: for when she saw men
pourtrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans pourtrayed with
vermilion,

15. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David
was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.

15. And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!

15. Moreover the altar that was at Bethel, and the high place which
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, both that
altar and the high place he brake down, and burned the high place, and
stamped it small to powder, and burned the grove.

15. The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

15. So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering
of the horse gate by the king’s house, they slew her there.

15. Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am
afraid of him.

15. My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even
mine.

15. And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be
forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after the
end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot.

15. Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets;
Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the water
of gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profaneness gone forth
into all the land.

15. Girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding in
dyed attire upon their heads, all of them princes to look to, after
the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their nativity:

16. And Jonathan Saul’s son arose, and went to David into the wood,
and strengthened his hand in God.

16. And
the three mighty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and
drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and
took it, and brought it to David: nevertheless he would not drink
thereof, but poured it out unto the LORD.

16. And as Josiah turned himself, he spied the sepulchres that were
there in the mount, and sent, and took the bones out of the
sepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and polluted it, according
to the word of the LORD which the man of God proclaimed, who
proclaimed these words.

16. Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.

16. And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the
people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD’s people.

16. For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:

16. Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.

16. Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been
forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be
remembered.

16. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the
prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a
vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the LORD.

16. And as soon as she saw them with her eyes, she doted upon them,
and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea.

17. And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father
shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall
be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.

17. And he said, Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this:
is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives?
therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty
men.

17. Then he said, What title is that that I see? And the men of the
city told him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, which came from
Judah, and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against the
altar of Bethel.

17. And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer
had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

17. Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it
down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan
the priest of Baal before the altars.

17. Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he
covered the darkness from my face.

17. Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the
LORD all the day long.

17. And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that
the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall
commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of
the earth.

17. They say still unto them that despise me, The LORD hath said, Ye
shall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after the
imagination of his own heart, No evil shall come upon you.

17. And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they
defiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with them, and
her mind was alienated from them.

18. And they two made a covenant before the LORD: and David abode in
the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.

18. And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief
among three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred, and
slew them, and had the name among three.

18. And he said, Let him alone; let no man move his bones. So they
let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet that came out of
Samaria.

18. Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

18. Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by
the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the
house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it
was ordained by David.

18. For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be
cut off.

18. And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD:
it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be
for them that dwell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and for
durable clothing.

18. For who hath stood in the counsel of the LORD, and hath
perceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and heard it?

18. So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness:
then my mind was alienated from her, like as my mind was alienated
from her sister.

19. Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not
David hide himself with us in strong holds in the wood, in the hill of
Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?

19. Was he not most honourable of three? therefore he was their
captain: howbeit he attained not unto the first three.

19. And all the houses also of the high places that were in the
cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the
Lord to anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all the
acts that he had done in Bethel.

19. Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

19. And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD,
that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.

19. Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the
way.

19. Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth in fury, even a
grievous whirlwind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of the
wicked.

19. Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to remembrance the
days of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of
Egypt.

20. Now therefore, O
king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down;
and our part shall be to deliver him into the king’s hand.

20. And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lionlike men of Moab: he
went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow:

20. And he slew all the priests of the high places that were there
upon the altars, and burned men’s bones upon them, and returned to
Jerusalem.

20. Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

20. And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the
governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought
down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the
high gate into the king’s house, and set the king upon the throne of
the kingdom.

20. Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh:

20. The anger of the LORD shall not return, until he have executed,
and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart: in the latter
days ye shall consider it perfectly.

20. For she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh
of asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.

21. And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the LORD; for ye have compassion
on me.

21. And he slew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a
spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked
the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear.

21. And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the passover
unto the LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant.

21. The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;
Eleazar, and Kish.

21. And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet,
after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.

21. For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness
shall clothe a man with rags.

21. I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spoken
to them, yet they prophesied.

21. Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, in
bruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy youth.

22. Go, I pray you, prepare yet, and know and see his place where
his haunt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he
dealeth very subtilly.

22. These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name
among three mighty men.

22. Surely there was not holden such a passover from the days of the
judges that judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel,
nor of the kings of Judah;

22. And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their
brethren the sons of Kish took them.

22. Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy
mother when she is old.

22. But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people to
hear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil way,
and from the evil of their doings.

22. Therefore, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will
raise up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy mind is alienated, and
I will bring them against thee on every side;

23. See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places
where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty,
and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the
land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of
Judah.

23. He was more honourable than the thirty, but he attained not to
the first three. And David set him over his guard.

23. But in the eighteenth year of king
Josiah, wherein this passover was holden to the LORD in Jerusalem.

23. The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

23. Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction,
and understanding.

23. Am I a God at hand, saith the LORD, and not a God afar off?

23. The Babylonians,
and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians
with them: all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great
lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.

24. And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his
men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of
Jeshimon.

24. Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the
son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

24. Moreover the workers with familiar spirits, and the wizards, and
the images, and the idols, and all the abominations that were spied in
the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, did Josiah put away, that he might
perform the words of the law which were written in the book that
Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.

24. These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;
even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the
LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

24. The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that
begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.

24. Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him?
saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD.

24. And they shall come against thee with chariots, wagons, and
wheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against thee
buckler and shield and helmet round about: and I will set judgment
before them, and they shall judge thee according to their judgments.

25. Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David;
wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of
Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the
wilderness of Maon.

25. Shammah the Harodite, Elika the
Harodite,

25. And like unto him was there no king before him, that turned to
the LORD with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his
might, according to all the law of Moses; neither after him arose
there any like him.

25. For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever:

25. Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee
shall rejoice.

25. I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my
name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.

25. And I will set my jealousy against thee, and they shall deal
furiously with thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; and
thy remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy
daughters; and thy residue shall be devoured by the fire.

26. And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his
men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for
fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round
about to take them.

26. Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,

26. Notwithstanding the LORD turned not from the fierceness of his
great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah, because of
all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal.

26. And also unto
the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels
of it for the service thereof.

26. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.

26. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that
prophesy lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own
heart;

26. They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes, and take away thy
fair jewels.

27. But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and
come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.

27. Abiezer the Anethothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,

27. And the LORD said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as
I have removed Israel, and will cast off this city Jerusalem which I
have chosen, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.

27. For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from
twenty years old and above:

27. For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow
pit.

27. Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their
dreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers
have forgotten my name for Baal.

27. Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from thee, and thy
whoredom brought from the land of Egypt: so that thou shalt not lift
up thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more.

28. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went
against the Philistines: therefore they called that place
Selahammahlekoth.

28. Zalmon
the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,

28. Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

28. Because their office was to wait on
the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the
courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things,
and the work of the service of the house of God;

28. She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the
transgressors among men.

28. The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that
hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff to
the wheat? saith the LORD.

28. For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver thee into
the hand of them whom thou hatest, into the hand of them from whom thy
mind is alienated:

29. And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strong holds at
Engedi.

29. Heleb the son of Baanah,
a Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai out of Gibeah of the children
of Benjamin,

29. In his days Pharaohnechoh king of Egypt went up against the king
of Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him;
and he slew him at Megiddo, when he had seen him.

29. Both for the
shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for the
unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that
which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size;

29. Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath
babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?

29. Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORD; and like a hammer
that breaketh the rock in pieces?

29. And they shall deal with thee hatefully, and
shall take away all thy labour, and shall leave thee naked and bare:
and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be discovered, both thy
lewdness and thy whoredoms.

30. Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of
Gaash,

30. And his servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, and
brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulchre. And the
people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him,
and made him king in his father’s stead.

30. And to
stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at
even:

30. They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed
wine.

30. Therefore, behold, I am
against the prophets, saith the LORD, that steal my words every one
from his neighbour.

30. I will do these things unto thee, because thou hast gone a
whoring after the heathen, and because thou art polluted with their
idols.

31. Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,

31. Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign;
and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

31. And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the
sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number,
according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the
LORD:

31. Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his
colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.

31. Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that use
their tongues, and say, He saith.

31. Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefore will I give
her cup into thine hand.

32. Eliahba the Shaalbonite, of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,

32. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his fathers had done.

32. And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of
the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of
the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the
LORD.

32. At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
adder.

32. Behold, I am against them that prophesy false dreams, saith the
LORD, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and
by their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them: therefore
they shall not profit this people at all, saith the LORD.

32. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou shalt drink of thy sister’s cup
deep and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorn and had in derision; it
containeth much.

33. Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,

33. And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Riblah in the land of
Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to a
tribute of an hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.

33. Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall
utter perverse things.

33. And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask
thee, saying, What is the burden of the LORD? thou shalt then say unto
them, What burden? I will even forsake you, saith the LORD.

33. Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup
of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria.

34. Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the
son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,

34. And Pharaohnechoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the
room of Josiah his father, and turned his name to Jehoiakim, and took
Jehoahaz away: and he came to Egypt, and died there.

34. Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the
sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.

34. And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that
shall say, The burden of the LORD, I will even punish that man and his
house.

34. Thou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt break
the sherds thereof, and pluck off thine own breasts: for I have spoken
it, saith the Lord GOD.

35. Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the
Arbite,

35. And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but he
taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of
Pharaoh: he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land,
of every one according to his taxation, to give it unto Pharaohnechoh.

35. They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they
have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it
yet again.

35. Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbour, and every one to
his brother, What hath the LORD answered? and, What hath the LORD
spoken?

35. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgotten
me, and cast me behind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdness
and thy whoredoms.

36. Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,

36. Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign;
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Zebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.

36. And the burden of the LORD shall ye mention no more:
for every man’s word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted the
words of the living God, of the LORD of hosts our God.

36. The LORD said moreover unto me; Son of man, wilt thou judge
Aholah and Aholibah? yea, declare unto them their abominations;

37. Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite, armourbearer to Joab the
son of Zeruiah,

37. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his fathers had done.

37. Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath the LORD answered
thee? and, What hath the LORD spoken?

37. That they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, and
with their idols have they committed adultery, and have also caused
their sons, whom they bare unto me, to pass for them through the fire,
to devour them.

38. Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite,

38. But since ye say, The
burden of the LORD; therefore thus saith the LORD; Because ye say this
word, The burden of the LORD, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye
shall not say, The burden of the LORD;

38. Moreover this they have done unto me: they have defiled my
sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.

39. Uriah
the Hittite: thirty and seven in all.

39. Therefore, behold, I,
even I, will utterly forget you, and I will forsake you, and the city
that I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence:

39. For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they
came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus have
they done in the midst of mine house.

40. And I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and a
perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.

40. And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to come from far,
unto whom a messenger was sent; and, lo, they came: for whom thou
didst wash thyself, paintedst thy eyes, and deckedst thyself with
ornaments,

41. And satest upon a stately bed, and a table prepared
before it, whereupon thou hast set mine incense and mine oil.

42. And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with
the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness,
which put bracelets upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon their
heads.

43. Then said I unto her that was old in adulteries, Will they now
commit whoredoms with her, and she with them?

44. Yet they went in
unto her, as they go in unto a woman that playeth the harlot: so went
they in unto Aholah and unto Aholibah, the lewd women.

45. And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the manner of
adulteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; because
they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.

46. For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will bring up a company upon
them, and will give them to be removed and spoiled.

47. And the company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them
with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and
burn up their houses with fire.

48. Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all
women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.

49. And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and ye shall
bear the sins of your idols: and ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.