1. And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the
Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the
wilderness of Engedi.

1. And again the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and
he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel and Judah.

1. In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim
became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against
him.

1. Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of
Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

1. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
forty years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

1. Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that
know him not see his days?

1. The earth is the LORD’s, and the fulness thereof; the world, and
they that dwell therein.

1. Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with
them.

1. Behold, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and
turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.

1. The LORD shewed me, and, behold, two baskets of figs were set
before the temple of the LORD, after that Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon had carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of
Judah, and the princes of Judah, with the carpenters and smiths, from
Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon.

1. Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of
the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and
went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.

2. For the king said to Joab the captain of the host, which was with
him, Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to
Beersheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the number of the
people.

2. And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, and bands of
the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of
Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the
word of the LORD, which he spake by his servants the prophets.

2. But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no
children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest’s office.

2. And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
the days of Jehoiada the priest.

2. Some remove the landmarks; they
violently take away flocks, and feed thereof.

2. For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the
floods.

2. For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of
mischief.

2. And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with
the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her
mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender,
so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of
usury to him.

2. One basket had very good figs, even like the figs that are first
ripe: and the other basket had very naughty figs, which could not be
eaten, they were so bad.

2. Son of man,
write thee the name of the day, even of this same day: the king of
Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day.

3. And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and
Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the
sides of the cave.

3. And Joab said unto the king, Now the LORD thy God add unto the
people, how many soever they be, an hundredfold, and that the eyes of
my lord the king may see it: but why doth my lord the king delight in
this thing?

3. Surely at the commandment of the LORD came this upon Judah, to
remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to
all that he did;

3. And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar,
and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in
their service.

3. And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and
daughters.

3. They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow’s
ox for a pledge.

3. Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in
his holy place?

3. Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is
established:

3. The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the
LORD hath spoken this word.

3. Then said the LORD unto me, What seest thou, Jeremiah? And I
said, Figs; the good figs, very good; and the evil, very evil, that
cannot be eaten, they are so evil.

3. And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them,
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Set on a pot, set it on, and also pour water
into it:

4. And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which the
LORD said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine
hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then
David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul’s robe privily.

4. Notwithstanding the king’s word prevailed against
Joab, and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains
of the host went out from the presence of the king, to number the
people of Israel.

4. And also for the innocent blood that he shed:
for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; which the LORD would not
pardon.

4. And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than
of the sons of Ithamar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons of
Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers,
and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their
fathers.

4. And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repair
the house of the LORD.

4. They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide
themselves together.

4. He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted
up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.

4. And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with
all precious and pleasant riches.

4. The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and
fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish.

4. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

4. Gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good
piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.

5. And it came to pass afterward, that David’s heart smote him,
because he had cut off Saul’s skirt.

5. And they passed over Jordan, and pitched in Aroer, on the right
side of the city that lieth in the midst of the river of Gad, and
toward Jazer:

5. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

5. Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the
governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of
the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.

5. And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to
them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money
to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye
hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.

5. Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work;
rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and
for their children.

5. He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness
from the God of his salvation.

5. A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth
strength.

5. The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because
they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the
everlasting covenant.

5. Thus saith
the LORD, the God of Israel; Like these good figs, so will I
acknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah, whom I have
sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good.

5. Take the choice of the flock, and burn also the bones under it,
and make it boil well, and let them seethe the bones of it therein.

6. And he said unto his men, The LORD forbid that I should do this
thing unto my master, the LORD’s anointed, to stretch forth mine hand
against him, seeing he is the anointed of the LORD.

6. Then they came to Gilead, and to the land of
Tahtimhodshi; and they came to Danjaan, and about to Zidon,

6. So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.

6. And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,
wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and
Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of
the priests and Levites: one principal household being taken for
Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

6. And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him,
Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and
out of Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Moses
the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for the
tabernacle of witness?

6. They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the
vintage of the wicked.

6. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face,
O Jacob. Selah.

6. For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of
counsellors there is safety.

6. Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell
therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are
burned, and few men left.

6. For I will set mine eyes upon them for good, and I will bring
them again to this land: and I will build them, and not pull them
down; and I will plant them, and not pluck them up.

6. Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city, to the
pot whose scum is therein, and whose scum is not gone out of it! bring
it out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it.

7. So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them
not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went
on his way.

7. And
came to the strong hold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites,
and of the Canaanites: and they went out to the south of Judah, even
to Beersheba.

7. And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his land:
for the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto the
river Euphrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt.

7. Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,

7. For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked
woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated
things of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.

7. They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no
covering in the cold.

7. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

7. Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the
gate.

7. The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted
do sigh.

7. And I will give them an heart to know me, that I am the LORD: and
they shall be my people, and I will be their God: for they shall
return unto me with their whole heart.

7. For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the top of
a rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with dust;

8. David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried
after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him,
David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.

8. So when they had gone through all the land, they came to
Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.

8. Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother’s name was Nehushta,
the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.

8. The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,

8. And at the king’s commandment they made a chest, and set it
without at the gate of the house of the LORD.

8. They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the
rock for want of a shelter.

8. Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD
mighty in battle.

8. He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person.

8. The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice
endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth.

8. And as the evil figs, which cannot be eaten, they are so evil;
surely thus saith the LORD, So will I give Zedekiah the king of Judah,
and his princes, and the residue of Jerusalem, that remain in this
land, and them that dwell in the land of Egypt:

8. That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance; I have set her
blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered.

9. And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men’s words,
saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?

9. And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the
king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that
drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.

9. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father had done.

9. The fifth to
Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,

9. And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to
bring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid
upon Israel in the wilderness.

9. They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of
the poor.

9. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

9. The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an
abomination to men.

9. They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be
bitter to them that drink it.

9. And I will
deliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth for
their hurt, to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, in
all places whither I shall drive them.

9. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city! I will
even make the pile for fire great.

10. Behold, this day thine
eyes have seen how that the LORD had delivered thee to day into mine
hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee: but mine eye spared
thee; and I said, I will not put forth mine hand against my lord; for
he is the LORD’s anointed.

10. And David’s heart smote him after that he had numbered the
people.

And David said unto the LORD, I have sinned greatly in that I have
done: and now, I beseech thee, O LORD, take away the iniquity of thy
servant; for I have done very foolishly.

10. At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came
up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.

10. The seventh to Hakkoz, the
eighth to Abijah,

10. And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in,
and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.

10. They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away
the sheaf from the hungry;

10. Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of
glory. Selah.

10. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.

10. The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up,
that no man may come in.

10. And I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, among
them, till they be consumed from off the land that I gave unto them
and to their fathers.

10. Heap on wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and spice it
well, and let the bones be burned.

11. Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my
hand: for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee
not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in
mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my
soul to take it.

11. For when David was up in the morning, the word of the LORD came
unto the prophet Gad, David’s seer, saying,

11. And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and
his servants did besiege it.

11. The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah,

11. Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought
unto the king’s office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw
that there was much money, the king’s scribe and the high priest’s
officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his
place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in
abundance.

11. Which make oil within their walls,
and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.

11. If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and
those that are ready to be slain;

11. There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened,
the mirth of the land is gone.

11. Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that the brass of it
may be hot, and may burn, and that the filthiness of it may be molten
in it, that the scum of it may be consumed.

12. The LORD judge between me and thee, and the LORD avenge me of
thee: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

12. Go and say unto
David, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things; choose thee one
of them, that I may do it unto thee.

12. And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of
Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and
his officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of
his reign.

12. The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,

12. And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the
service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to
repair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass
to mend the house of the LORD.

12. Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded
crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them.

12. If thou sayest, Behold, we
knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he
that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he render to
every man according to his works?

12. In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with
destruction.

12. She hath wearied herself with lies, and her great scum went not
forth out of her: her scum shall be in the fire.

13. As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from
the wicked: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

13. So Gad came to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall
seven years of famine come unto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee
three months before thine enemies, while they pursue thee? or that
there be three days’ pestilence in thy land? now advise, and see what
answer I shall return to him that sent me.

13. And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of the
LORD, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the
vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of
the LORD, as the LORD had said.

13. The
thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,

13. So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, and
they set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it.

13. They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not
the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.

13. My son, eat thou honey,
because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:

13. When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people,
there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning
grapes when the vintage is done.

13. In thy filthiness is lewdness: because I have purged thee, and
thou wast not purged, thou shalt not be purged from thy filthiness any
more, till I have caused my fury to rest upon thee.

14. After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou
pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.

14. And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now
into the hand of the LORD; for his mercies are great: and let me not
fall into the hand of man.

14. And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all
the mighty men of valour, even ten thousand captives, and all the
craftsmen and smiths: none remained, save the poorest sort of the
people of the land.

14. The fifteenth
to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,

14. And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the
money before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the
house of the LORD, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, and
spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt
offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of
Jehoiada.

14. The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy,
and in the night is as a thief.

14. So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou
hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall
not be cut off.

14. They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty
of the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea.

14. I the LORD have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will do
it; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent;
according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, shall they judge
thee, saith the Lord GOD.

15. The LORD therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and
see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.

15. So the LORD sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even
to the time appointed: and there died of the people from Dan even to
Beersheba seventy thousand men.

15. And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king’s
mother, and the king’s wives, and his officers, and the mighty of the
land, those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.

15. The seventeenth to Hezir, the
eighteenth to Aphses,

15. But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; an
hundred and thirty years old was he when he died.

15. The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying,
No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face.

15. Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the
righteous; spoil not his resting place:

15. Wherefore glorify ye the LORD in the fires, even the name of the
LORD God of Israel in the isles of the sea.

15. Also the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

16. And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking
these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son
David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.

16. And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to
destroy it, the LORD repented him of the evil, and said to the angel
that destroyed the people, It is enough: stay now thine hand. And the
angel of the LORD was by the threshingplace of Araunah the Jebusite.

16. And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and
smiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war, even them the
king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.

16. The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth
to Jehezekel,

16. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings,
because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward his
house.

16. In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for
themselves in the daytime: they know not the light.

16. For a just man falleth
seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into
mischief.

16. From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, even
glory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto
me! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the
treacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously.

16. Son of
man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a
stroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears
run down.

17. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou
hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.

17. And David spake unto the LORD when he saw the angel that smote
the people, and said, Lo, I have sinned, and I have done wickedly: but
these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, be
against me, and against my father’s house.

17. And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father’s brother king
in his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah.

17. The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and
twentieth to Gamul,

17. Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and
made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.

17. For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one
know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death.

17. Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be
glad when he stumbleth:

17. Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant of
the earth.

17. Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead, bind the tire of
thine head upon thee, and put on thy shoes upon thy feet, and cover
not thy lips, and eat not the bread of men.

18. And thou hast shewed this day how that thou hast dealt well with
me: forasmuch as when the LORD had delivered me into thine hand, thou
killedst me not.

18. And Gad came that day to David, and said unto him, Go up, rear
an altar unto the LORD in the threshingfloor of Araunah the Jebusite.

18. Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

18. The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four
and twentieth to Maaziah.

18. And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers, and
served groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for
this their trespass.

18. He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth:
he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.

18. Lest the LORD see it, and it displease
him, and he turn away his wrath from him.

18. And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of
the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the
midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on
high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake.

18. So I spake unto the people in the morning: and at even my wife
died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.

19. For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away?
wherefore the LORD reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me
this day.

19. And David, according to the saying of Gad, went up as the LORD
commanded.

19. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that Jehoiakim had done.

19. These were the orderings of them in their service to come into
the house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron their
father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.

19. Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD;
and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.

19. Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave
those which have sinned.

19. Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at
the wicked:

19. The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved,
the earth is moved exceedingly.

19. And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell us what these
things are to us, that thou doest so?

20. And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and
that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand.

20. And Araunah looked, and saw the king and his servants coming on
toward him: and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the king on
his face upon the ground.

20. For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem
and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah
rebelled against the king of Babylon.

20. And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of
Amram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.

20. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada
the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus
saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, that ye
cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath also
forsaken you.

20. The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him;
he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a
tree.

20. For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the
candle of the wicked shall be put out.

20. The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be
removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy
upon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again.

20. Then I answered them, The
word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

21. Swear now therefore unto me by the LORD, that thou wilt not cut
off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my
father’s house.

21. And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his
servant? And David said, To buy the threshingfloor of thee, to build
an altar unto the LORD, that the plague may be stayed from the people.

21. Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was
Isshiah.

21. And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at
the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD.

21. He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not
good to the widow.

21. My son, fear thou the LORD and the king: and meddle not with
them that are given to change:

21. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall
punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings of
the earth upon the earth.

21. Speak unto the house of
Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will profane my sanctuary,
the excellency of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that
which your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom ye have
left shall fall by the sword.

22. And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his
men gat them up unto the hold.

22. And Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer
up what seemeth good unto him: behold, here be oxen for burnt
sacrifice, and threshing instruments and other instruments of the oxen
for wood.

22. Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.

22. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada
his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he
said, The LORD look upon it, and require it.

22. He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no
man is sure of life.

22. For their calamity shall rise
suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?

22. And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered
in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days
shall they be visited.

22. And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover your lips,
nor eat the bread of men.

23. All these things did Araunah, as a king, give unto the king. And
Araunah said unto the king, The LORD thy God accept thee.

23. And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

23. And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host of
Syria came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and
destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and
sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.

23. Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet
his eyes are upon their ways.

23. These things
also belong to the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in
judgment.

23. Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the
LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before
his ancients gloriously.

23. And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoes upon
your feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away for
your iniquities, and mourn one toward another.

24. And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; but I will surely buy it of
thee at a price: neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the LORD my
God of that which doth cost me nothing. So David bought the
threshingfloor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.

24. Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.

24. For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men,
and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because they
had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgment
against Joash.

24. They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought
low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the
tops of the ears of corn.

24. He that saith unto the wicked, Thou are righteous; him shall the
people curse, nations shall abhor him:

24. Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: according to all that he hath
done shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye shall know that I am the
Lord GOD.

25. And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings and peace offerings. So the LORD was intreated for the land,
and the plague was stayed from Israel.




The First Book of the Kings

25. The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah;
Zechariah.

25. And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in
great diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the blood
of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he
died: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him
not in the sepulchres of the kings.

25. And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my
speech nothing worth?

25. But to them that rebuke
him shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.

25. Also, thou son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take
from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their
eyes, and that whereupon they set their minds, their sons and their
daughters,

26. The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah;
Beno.

26. And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son of
Shimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.

26. Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer.

26. That he that escapeth in that day shall come unto
thee, to cause thee to hear it with thine ears?

27. The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and
Ibri.

27. Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid
upon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they are
written in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son
reigned in his stead.

27. Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the
field; and afterwards build thine house.

27. In that day
shall thy mouth be opened to him which is escaped, and thou shalt
speak, and be no more dumb: and thou shalt be a sign unto them; and
they shall know that I am the LORD.

28. Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons.

28. Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and
deceive not with thy lips.

29. Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.

29. Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will
render to the man according to his work.

30. The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These
were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers.

30. I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the
man void of understanding;

31. These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons of
Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and
the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the
principal fathers over against their younger brethren.

31. And, lo, it was all grown over with
thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall
thereof was broken down.

32. Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and
received instruction.

33. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the
hands to sleep:

34. So shall thy poverty come as one that
travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.