1. And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathered together,
and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David
arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.

1. And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth
month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon came, he, and all his host, against Jerusalem, and pitched
against it; and they built forts against it round about.

1. Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the
service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who
should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the
number of the workmen according to their service was:

1. Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name
was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

1. Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and
said,

1. Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.

1. These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah
king of Judah copied out.

1. O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy
name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old are
faithfulness and truth.

1. The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah
in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, that
was the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon;

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel;
and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a
thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.

2. And the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king
Zedekiah.

2. Of the sons
of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of
Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the
order of the king.

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not
with a perfect heart.

2. Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high
places.

2. O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine
enemies triumph over me.

2. It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of
kings is to search out a matter.

2. For thou hast made of a city an heap; of a defenced city a ruin:
a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built.

2. The which
Jeremiah the prophet spake unto all the people of Judah, and to all
the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying,

2. Son of man,
set thy face against the Ammonites, and prophesy against them;

3. Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife
Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful
countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he
was of the house of Caleb.

3. And on the ninth day of the fourth month the famine prevailed in
the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land.

3. Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and
Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their
father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to
praise the LORD.

3. Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him,
that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.

3. Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his
light arise?

3. Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed
which transgress without cause.

3. The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of
kings is unsearchable.

3. Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the
terrible nations shall fear thee.

3. From the thirteenth year of
Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, even unto this day, that is the
three and twentieth year, the word of the LORD hath come unto me, and
I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye have not
hearkened.

3. And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it
was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was desolate;
and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity;

4. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.

4. And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by night
by the way of the gate between two walls, which is by the king’s
garden: (now the Chaldees were against the city round about:) and the
king went the way toward the plain.

4. Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel,
and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer,
Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth:

4. But he slew not their children, but did as it is written in the
law in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, The
fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die
for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.

4. How then can man be justified with God? or how can
he be clean that is born of a woman?

4. Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.

4. Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a
vessel for the finer.

4. For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the
needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the
heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the
wall.

4. And the LORD hath sent unto you all his servants the prophets,
rising early and sending them; but ye have not hearkened, nor inclined
your ear to hear.

4. Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of the east for a
possession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make their
dwellings in thee: they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy
milk.

5. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young
men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name:

5. And the army of the Chaldees pursued after the king, and overtook
him in the plains of Jericho: and all his army were scattered from
him.

5. All these were the
sons of Heman the king’s seer in the words of God, to lift up the
horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

5. Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and made them captains
over thousands, and captains over hundreds, according to the houses of
their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them
from twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousand
choice men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and
shield.

5. Behold even to the moon,
and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight.

5. Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my
salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

5. Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall
be established in righteousness.

5. Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in a
dry place; even the heat with the shadow of a cloud: the branch of the
terrible ones shall be brought low.

5. They said, Turn ye again now every one from his evil way, and
from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that the LORD hath
given unto you and to your fathers for ever and ever:

5. And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the Ammonites a
couching place for flocks: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

6. And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be
both to thee, and peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that
thou hast.

6. So they took the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylon
to Riblah; and they gave judgment upon him.

6. All these were under the hands of their father for song in the
house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the
service of the house of God, according to the king’s order to Asaph,
Jeduthun, and Heman.

6. He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out of
Israel for an hundred talents of silver.

6. How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a
worm?

6. Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses;
for they have been ever of old.

6. Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not
in the place of great men:

6. And in this mountain shall the LORD of hosts make unto all people
a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things
full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.

6. And go not
after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, and provoke me
not to anger with the works of your hands; and I will do you no hurt.

6. For thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast clapped thine
hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced in heart with all thy
despite against the land of Israel;

7. And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds
which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought missing
unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.

7. And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out
the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him with fetters of brass, and carried
him to Babylon.

7. So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed
in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred
fourscore and eight.

7. But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the
army of Israel go with thee; for the LORD is not with Israel, to wit,
with all the children of Ephraim.

7. Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions:
according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness’ sake, O
LORD.

7. For better it is that it be said unto
thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the
presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.

7. And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering
cast over all people, and the vail that is spread over all nations.

7. Yet ye have not hearkened unto me, saith the LORD; that ye might
provoke me to anger with the works of your hands to your own hurt.

7. Behold, therefore I will
stretch out mine hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to
the heathen; and I will cut thee off from the people, and I will cause
thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee; and thou
shalt know that I am the LORD.

8. Ask thy young men, and they will shew thee. Wherefore let the
young men find favour in thine eyes: for we come in a good day: give,
I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy servants, and to
thy son David.

8. And in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which is
the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, came
Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon,
unto Jerusalem:

8. And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the
great, the teacher as the scholar.

8. But if thou wilt go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shall
make thee fall before the enemy: for God hath power to help, and to
cast down.

8. Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in
the way.

8. Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in
the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.

8. He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord GOD will wipe
away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he
take away from off all the earth: for the LORD hath spoken it.

8. Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Because ye have not heard
my words,

8. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Moab and Seir do say,
Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the heathen;

9. And when David’s young men came, they spake to Nabal according to
all those words in the name of David, and ceased.

9. And he burnt the house of the LORD, and the
king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, and every great man’s
house burnt he with fire.

9. Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to
Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve:

9. And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the
hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man
of God answered, The LORD is able to give thee much more than this.

9. The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach
his way.

9. Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a
secret to another:

9. And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have
waited for him, and he will save us: this is the LORD; we have waited
for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.

9. Behold, I will send and take all the families of the
north, saith the LORD, and Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, my
servant, and will bring them against this land, and against the
inhabitants thereof, and against all these nations round about, and
will utterly destroy them, and make them an astonishment, and an
hissing, and perpetual desolations.

9. Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from
his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country,
Bethjeshimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim,

10. And Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, Who is David? and
who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break
away every man from his master.

10. And all the army of the Chaldees, that were with the captain of
the guard, brake down the walls of Jerusalem round about.

10. The third
to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

10. Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come to
him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was
greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.

10. All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep
his covenant and his testimonies.

10. Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame,
and thine infamy turn not away.

10. For in this mountain shall the hand of the LORD rest, and Moab
shall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for the
dunghill.

10. Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth, and the voice
of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride,
the sound of the millstones, and the light of the candle.

10. Unto the men of the
east with the Ammonites, and will give them in possession, that the
Ammonites may not be remembered among the nations.

11. Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I
have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not
whence they be?

11. Now the rest of the people that were left in the city, and the
fugitives that fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant of
the multitude, did Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carry away.

11. The
fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

11. And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, and
went to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten
thousand.

11. For thy name’s sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it is
great.

11. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of
silver.

11. And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he
that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim: and he shall bring
down their pride together with the spoils of their hands.

11. And this whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment;
and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.

11. And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and they shall know that
I am the LORD.

12. So David’s young men turned their way, and went
again, and came and told him all those sayings.

12. But the captain of the guard left of the poor of the land to be 
vinedressers and husbandmen.

12. The
fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

12. And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judah
carry away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and
cast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in
pieces.

12. What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the
way that he shall choose.

12. As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a
wise reprover upon an obedient ear.

12. And the fortress of the high fort of thy walls shall he bring
down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.

12. And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished,
that I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation, saith the
LORD, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will make
it perpetual desolations.

12. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Edom hath dealt against
the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, and
revenged himself upon them;

13. And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And
they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his
sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two
hundred abode by the stuff.

13. And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, and
the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD, did
the Chaldees break in pieces, and carried the brass of them to
Babylon.

13. The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

13. But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that they
should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from
Samaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, and
took much spoil.

13. His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the
earth.

13. As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful
messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his
masters.

13. And I will bring upon that land all my words which I have
pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which
Jeremiah hath prophesied against all the nations.

13. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I
will also stretch out mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and
beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; and they of
Dedan shall fall by the sword.

14. But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying,
Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our
master; and he railed on them.

14. And the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons,
and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered, took they
away.

14. The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve:

14. Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the
slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of
Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before
them, and burned incense unto them.

14. The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will
shew them his covenant.

14. Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind
without rain.

14. For many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them
also: and I will recompense them according to their deeds, and
according to the works of their own hands.

14. And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people
Israel: and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and
according to my fury; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord
GOD.

15. But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt,
neither missed we any thing, as long as we were conversant with them,
when we were in the fields:

15. And the firepans, and the bowls, and such things as were of
gold, in gold, and of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard took
away.

15. The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve:

15. Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah, and
he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought
after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people
out of thine hand?

15. Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet
out of the net.

15. By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue
breaketh the bone.

15. For thus saith the LORD God of Israel unto me; Take the wine cup
of this fury at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send
thee, to drink it.

15. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because the Philistines have dealt by
revenge, and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart, to destroy
it for the old hatred;

16. They were a wall unto us both by
night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.

16. The two pillars, one sea, and the bases which Solomon had made
for the house of the LORD; the brass of all these vessels was without
weight.

16. The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve:

16. And it came to pass, as he talked with him,
that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king’s counsel?
forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and
said, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou
hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.

16. Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and
afflicted.

16. Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee,
lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.

16. And they shall drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of the
sword that I will send among them.

16. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines, and I will
cut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.

17. Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is
determined against our master, and against all his household: for he
is such a son of Belial, that a man cannot speak to him.

17. The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and the
chapiter upon it was brass: and the height of the chapiter three
cubits; and the wreathen work, and pomegranates upon the chapiter
round about, all of brass: and like unto these had the second pillar
with wreathen work.

17. The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and
his brethren, were twelve:

17. Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the
son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us
see one another in the face.

17. The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my
distresses.

17. Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour’s house; lest he be weary
of thee, and so hate thee.

17. Then took I the cup at the LORD’s hand, and made all the nations
to drink, unto whom the LORD had sent me:

17. And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious
rebukes; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall lay my
vengeance upon them.

18. Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two
bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of
parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred
cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.

18. And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and
Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door:

18. The eleventh to Azareel, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

18. And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying,
The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon,
saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a
wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

18. Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.

18. A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a
maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.

18. To wit, Jerusalem, and
the cities of Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof,
to make them a desolation, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse;
as it is this day;

19. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come
after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.

19. And out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men of
war, and five men of them that were in the king’s presence, which were
found in the city, and the principal scribe of the host, which
mustered the people of the land, and threescore men of the people of
the land that were found in the city:

19. The twelfth to Hashabiah,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

19. Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heart
lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddle
to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with
thee?

19. Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with
cruel hatred.

19. Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a
broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.

19. Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, and
his princes, and all his people;

20. And it was so, as she rode on the ass, that she came down by the
covert on the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against
her; and she met them.

20. And Nebuzaradan captain of
the guard took these, and brought them to the king of Babylon to
Riblah:

20. The thirteenth to
Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

20. But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that he
might deliver them into the hand of their enemies, because they sought
after the gods of Edom.

20. O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put
my trust in thee.

20. As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar
upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.

20. And all the mingled people, and
all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the
Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Azzah, and Ekron, and the remnant of
Ashdod,

21. Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this
fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that
pertained unto him: and he hath requited me evil for good.

21. And the king of Babylon smote them, and slew them at
Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away out of their
land.

21. The
fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

21. So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another in
the face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, which
belongeth to Judah.

21. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.

21. If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be
thirsty, give him water to drink:

21. Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon,

22. So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of
all that pertain to him by the morning light any that pisseth against
the wall.

22. And as for the people that remained in the land of Judah, whom
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, even over them he made
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler.

22. The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve:

22. And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled
every man to his tent.

22. Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.

22. For thou shalt heap coals of
fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee.

22. And all
the kings of Tyrus, and all the kings of Zidon, and the kings of the
isles which are beyond the sea,

23. And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass,
and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,

23. And when all the captains of the armies, they and their men,
heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, there came
to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan
the son of Careah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite,
and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and their men.

23. The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve:

23. And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son
of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to
Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of
Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.

23. The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a
backbiting tongue.

23. Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and
all that are in the utmost corners,

24. And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let
this iniquity be: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine
audience, and hear the words of thine handmaid.

24. And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and said unto
them, Fear not to be the servants of the Chaldees: dwell in the land,
and serve the king of Babylon; and it shall be well with you.

24. The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

24. And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels
that were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the treasures
of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.

24. It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a
brawling woman and in a wide house.

24. And all the kings of Arabia,
and all the kings of the mingled people that dwell in the desert,

25. Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even
Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is
with him: but I thine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom
thou didst send.

25. But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son
of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, came, and ten
men with him, and smote Gedaliah, that he died, and the Jews and the
Chaldees that were with him at Mizpah.

25. The eighteenth to Hanani,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25. And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

25. As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far
country.

25. And all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all
the kings of the Medes,

26. Now therefore, my lord, as the LORD liveth, and as thy soul
liveth, seeing the LORD hath withholden thee from coming to shed
blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine
enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.

26. And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of
the armies, arose, and came to Egypt: for they were afraid of the
Chaldees.

26. The nineteenth to
Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

26. Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are
they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?

26. A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled
fountain, and a corrupt spring.

26. And all the kings of the north, far and
near, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world, which are
upon the face of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink after
them.

27. And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my
lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.

27. And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the
captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the
seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of
Babylon in the year that he began to reign did lift up the head of
Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison;

27. The
twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

27. Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from following the LORD
they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to
Lachish: but they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.

27. It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own
glory is not glory.

27. Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of
hosts, the God of Israel; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, and
fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send among
you.

28. I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid: for the
LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house; because my lord
fighteth the battles of the LORD, and evil hath not been found in thee
all thy days.

28. And he spake kindly to
him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were with
him in Babylon;

28. The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve:

28. And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his
fathers in the city of Judah.

28. He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is
broken down, and without walls.

28. And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at thine hand to
drink, then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ye
shall certainly drink.

29. Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul: but the
soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the LORD thy
God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out
of the middle of a sling.

29. And changed his prison garments: and he did eat
bread continually before him all the days of his life.

29. The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons,
and his brethren, were twelve:

29. For, lo, I begin to bring evil on the city which is called by my
name, and should ye be utterly unpunished? Ye shall not be unpunished:
for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth,
saith the LORD of hosts.

30. And it shall come to pass, when the LORD shall have done to my
lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee,
and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel;

30. And his allowance was a continual allowance given him of the
king, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life.




The First Book of the Chronicles

30. The three and twentieth to
Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

30. Therefore prophesy thou against them all these words, and say
unto them, The LORD shall roar from on high, and utter his voice from
his holy habitation; he shall mightily roar upon his habitation; he
shall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes, against all the
inhabitants of the earth.

31. That this shall
be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my lord, either that
thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself:
but when the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember
thine handmaid.

31. The four
and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve.

31. A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the LORD
hath a controversy with the nations, he will plead with all flesh; he
will give them that are wicked to the sword, saith the LORD.

32. And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel,
which sent thee this day to meet me:

32. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, evil shall go forth from
nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the
coasts of the earth.

33. And blessed be thy advice,
and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed
blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

33. And the slain of the LORD shall be at that day from one end of
the earth even unto the other end of the earth: they shall not be
lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung upon the
ground.

34. For in very deed, as the LORD God of Israel liveth, which hath
kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to
meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning
light any that pisseth against the wall.

34. Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and wallow yourselves in the ashes,
ye principal of the flock: for the days of your slaughter and of your
dispersions are accomplished; and ye shall fall like a pleasant
vessel.

35. So David received of her hand that which she had brought him,
and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house; see, I have
hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.

35. And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal
of the flock to escape.

36. And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his
house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal’s heart was merry within
him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or
more, until the morning light.

36. A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and an howling of the
principal of the flock, shall be heard: for the LORD hath spoiled
their pasture.

37. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out
of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died
within him, and he became as a stone.

37. And the peaceable habitations are cut down because of the fierce
anger of the LORD.

38. And it came to pass about ten days after, that the LORD smote
Nabal, that he died.

38. He hath forsaken his covert, as the lion: for their land is
desolate because of the fierceness of the oppressor, and because of
his fierce anger.

39. And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be
the LORD, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of
Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for the LORD hath returned
the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed
with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.

40. And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel,
they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to
him to wife.

41. And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and
said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the
servants of my lord.

42. And Abigail hasted, and arose and rode upon an ass, with five
damsels of hers that went after her; and she went after the messengers
of David, and became his wife.

43. David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were also both of
them his wives.

44. But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Phalti
the son of Laish, which was of Gallim.