1. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the
hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should
speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall
despair of me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: so shall I
escape out of his hand.

1. Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chief
fathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers
that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and
went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of
every course were twenty and four thousand.

1. Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok.

1. Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,

1. The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the
LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

1. Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day
may bring forth.

1. In that day the LORD with his sore and great and strong sword
shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan that
crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.

1. In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king
of Judah came this word unto Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that
were with him unto Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.

2. Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son
of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Uzziah did: howbeit he entered not
into the temple of the LORD. And the people did yet corruptly.

2. As God liveth, who
hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul;

2. When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to
eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.

2. Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger,
and not thine own lips.

2. In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyard of red wine.

2. Thus
saith the LORD to me; Make thee bonds and yokes, and put them upon thy
neck,

2. Now, thou
son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrus;

3. And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man
with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the
Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s wife.

3. Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the
host for the first month.

3. He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wall
of Ophel he built much.

3. All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my
nostrils;

3. Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear:
though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.

3. A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool’s wrath is
heavier than them both.

3. I the LORD do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest any
hurt it, I will keep it night and day.

3. And send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab,
and to the king of the Ammonites, and to the king of Tyrus, and to the
king of Zidon, by the hand of the messengers which come to Jerusalem
unto Zedekiah king of Judah;

3. And say unto Tyrus,
O thou that art situate at the entry of the sea, which art a merchant
of the people for many isles, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O Tyrus, thou
hast said, I am of perfect beauty.

4. And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath: and he sought
no more again for him.

4. And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and
of his course was Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise were
twenty and four thousand.

4. Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the
forests he built castles and towers.

4. My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter
deceit.

4. One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after;
that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to
behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.

4. Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand
before envy?

4. Fury is not in me: who would set the briers and thorns against me
in battle? I would go through them, I would burn them together.

4. And command them to say unto their
masters, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Thus shall
ye say unto your masters;

4. Thy borders are in the midst of the seas, thy builders have
perfected thy beauty.

5. And David said unto Achish, If I have now found grace in thine
eyes, let them give me a place in some town in the country, that I may
dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with
thee?

5. The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the
son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course were twenty and
four thousand.

5. He fought also with the king of the Ammonites, and prevailed
against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an
hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten
thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon pay unto him,
both the second year, and the third.

5. God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not
remove mine integrity from me.

5. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in
the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon
a rock.

5. Open rebuke is better than secret love.

5. Or let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with
me; and he shall make peace with me.

5. I have made the earth, the man and the
beast that are upon the ground, by my great power and by my
outstretched arm, and have given it unto whom it seemed meet unto me.

5. They have made all thy ship boards of fir trees of Senir: they
have taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for thee.

6. Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: wherefore Ziklag
pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.

6. This is that Benaiah, who was mighty among the thirty, and above
the thirty: and in his course was Ammizabad his son.

6. So Jotham became mighty, because he prepared his ways before the
LORD his God.

6. My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart
shall not reproach me so long as I live.

6. And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round
about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy;
I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.

6. Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy
are deceitful.

6. He shall cause them that come of Jacob to take root: Israel shall
blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.

6. And now have I given all these lands into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant; and the beasts of the
field have I given him also to serve him.

6. Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the company of
the Ashurites have made thy benches of ivory, brought out of the isles
of Chittim.

7. And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines
was a full year and four months.

7. The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of
Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

7. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his
ways, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and
Judah.

7. Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me
as the unrighteous.

7. Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me,
and answer me.

7. The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every
bitter thing is sweet.

7. Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? or is he
slain according to the slaughter of them that are slain by him?

7. And all nations shall serve him, and his son, and his son’s son,
until the very time of his land come: and then many nations and great
kings shall serve themselves of him.

7. Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou
spreadest forth to be thy sail; blue and purple from the isles of
Elishah was that which covered thee.

8. And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and
the Gezrites, and the Amalekites: for those nations were of old the
inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of
Egypt.

8. The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite:
and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

8. He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.

8. For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained,
when God taketh away his soul?

8. When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy
face, LORD, will I seek.

8. As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that
wandereth from his place.

8. In measure, when it shooteth forth, thou wilt debate with it: he
stayeth his rough wind in the day of the east wind.

8. And it shall come to pass, that the nation and kingdom which will
not serve the same Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, and that will
not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation
will I punish, saith the LORD, with the sword, and with the famine,
and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand.

8. The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy mariners: thy wise
men, O Tyrus, that were in thee, were thy pilots.

9. And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive,
and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels,
and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.

9. The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh
the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

9. And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.

9. Will God hear his cry when
trouble cometh upon him?

9. Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger:
thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my
salvation.

9. Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of
a man’s friend by hearty counsel.

9. By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and this
is all the fruit to take away his sin; when he maketh all the stones
of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, the groves and
images shall not stand up.

9. Therefore hearken not ye to your prophets, nor to your diviners,
nor to your dreamers, nor to your enchanters, nor to your sorcerers,
which speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon:

9. The ancients of Gebal and the wise men thereof were in thee thy
calkers: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in thee to
occupy thy merchandise.

10. And Achish said, Whither have ye made a road to day? And David
said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the
Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.

10. The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the
Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

10. Will he delight himself in the
Almighty? will he always call upon God?

10. When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take
me up.

10. Thine own friend, and thy father’s friend, forsake not; neither
go into thy brother’s house in the day of thy calamity: for better is
a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.

10. Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and the habitation
forsaken, and left like a wilderness: there shall the calf feed, and
there shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.

10. For they prophesy a lie unto you, to remove you far from your
land; and that I should drive you out, and ye should perish.

10. They of Persia and of Lud and of Phut were in thine army, thy
men of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in thee; they set forth
thy comeliness.

11. And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to
Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and
so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the
Philistines.

11. The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the
Hushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

11. I will teach you by the
hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.

11. Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because
of mine enemies.

11. My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him
that reproacheth me.

11. When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off:
the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of no
understanding: therefore he that made them will not have mercy on
them, and he that formed them will shew them no favour.

11. But the nations that bring their neck under the yoke of the king
of Babylon, and serve him, those will I let remain still in their own
land, saith the LORD; and they shall till it, and dwell therein.

11. The men of Arvad with thine army were upon thy walls round
about, and the Gammadims were in thy towers: they hanged their shields
upon thy walls round about; they have made thy beauty perfect.

12. And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people
Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for
ever.

12. The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the
Anetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

12. Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus
altogether vain?

12. Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false
witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

12. A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the
simple pass on, and are punished.

12. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall beat
off from the channel of the river unto the stream of Egypt, and ye
shall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel.

12. I spake also to Zedekiah king of Judah according to all these
words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon,
and serve him and his people, and live.

12. Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind
of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy fairs.

13. The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the
Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

13. This is the portion of a wicked man with God,
and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the
Almighty.

13. I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the
LORD in the land of the living.

13. Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and take a
pledge of him for a strange woman.

13. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the great trumpet
shall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to perish in the
land of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shall
worship the LORD in the holy mount at Jerusalem.

13. Why will ye die, thou and thy people, by the sword, by the
famine, and by the pestilence, as the LORD hath spoken against the
nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?

13. Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were thy merchants: they traded
the persons of men and vessels of brass in thy market.

14. The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the
Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

14. If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his
offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.

14. Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen
thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.

14. He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in
the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.

14. Therefore
hearken not unto the words of the prophets that speak unto you,
saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon: for they prophesy a
lie unto you.

14. They of the house of Togarmah traded in thy fairs with horses
and horsemen and mules.

15. The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the
Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

15. Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his
widows shall not weep.

15. A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman
are alike.

15. For I have not sent them, saith the LORD, yet they prophesy a
lie in my name; that I might drive you out, and that ye might perish,
ye, and the prophets that prophesy unto you.

15. The men of Dedan were thy merchants; many isles were the
merchandise of thine hand: they brought thee for a present horns of
ivory and ebony.

16. Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the
Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri: of the Simeonites,
Shephatiah the son of Maachah:

16. Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the
clay;

16. Whosoever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his
right hand, which bewrayeth itself.

16. Also I spake to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus
saith the LORD; Hearken not to the words of your prophets that
prophesy unto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the LORD’s house
shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon: for they prophesy a
lie unto you.

16. Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares
of thy making: they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds, purple, and
broidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and agate.

17. Of the Levites, Hashabiah the son
of Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok:

17. He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the
innocent shall divide the silver.

17. Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his
friend.

17. Hearken not unto them; serve the king of Babylon, and live:
wherefore should this city be laid waste?

17. Judah, and the land of Israel, they were thy merchants: they
traded in thy market wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honey, and oil,
and balm.

18. Of Judah, Elihu, one of the
brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael:

18. He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper
maketh.

18. Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he
that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.

18. But if they be
prophets, and if the word of the LORD be with them, let them now make
intercession to the LORD of hosts, that the vessels which are left in
the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah, and at
Jerusalem, go not to Babylon.

18. Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thy
making, for the multitude of all riches; in the wine of Helbon, and
white wool.

19. Of
Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of
Azriel:

19. The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he
openeth his eyes, and he is not.

19. As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.

19. For thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, and
concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the
residue of the vessels that remain in this city.

19. Dan also and Javan going to and fro occupied in thy fairs:
bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in thy market.

20. Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah:
of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah:

20. Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away
in the night.

20. Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are
never satisfied.

20. Which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took not, when he carried
away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah from
Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem;

20. Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots.

21. Of the
half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of
Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner:

21. The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a
storm hurleth him out of his place.

21. As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a
man to his praise.

21. Yea, thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the
vessels that remain in the house of the LORD, and in the house of the
king of Judah and of Jerusalem;

21. Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with thee in
lambs, and rams, and goats: in these were they thy merchants.

22. Of Dan, Azareel the son of
Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.

22. For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee
out of his hand.

22. Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a
pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him.

22. They shall be carried to
Babylon, and there shall they be until the day that I visit them,
saith the LORD; then will I bring them up, and restore them to this
place.

22. The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they were thy merchants: they
occupied in thy fairs with chief of all spices, and with all precious
stones, and gold.

23. But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and
under: because the LORD had said he would increase Israel like to the
stars of the heavens.

23. Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his
place.

23. Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well
to thy herds.

23. Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and
Chilmad, were thy merchants.

24. Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not,
because there fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the number
put in the account of the chronicles of king David.

24. For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every
generation?

24. These were thy merchants in all sorts of things, in blue
clothes, and broidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound with
cords, and made of cedar, among thy merchandise.

25. And over the king’s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and
over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the
villages, and in the castles, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah:

25. The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth
itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.

25. The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market: and thou
wast replenished, and made very glorious in the midst of the seas.

26. And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground
was Ezri the son of Chelub:

26. The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of
the field.

26. Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters: the east wind
hath broken thee in the midst of the seas.

27. And over the vineyards was Shimei
the Ramathite: over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars
was Zabdi the Shiphmite:

27. And thou shalt have goats’ milk enough for thy food, for the
food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens.

27. Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy mariners, and
thy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise, and all
thy men of war, that are in thee, and in all thy company which is in
the midst of thee, shall fall into the midst of the seas in the day of
thy ruin.

28. And over the olive trees and the
sycomore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite:
and over the cellars of oil was Joash:

28. The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots.

29. And over the herds that
fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that were
in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai:

29. And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of
the sea, shall come down from their ships, they shall stand upon the
land;

30. Over the camels
also was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah the
Meronothite:

30. And shall cause their voice to be heard against thee, and
shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon their heads, they
shall wallow themselves in the ashes:

31. And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. All
these were the rulers of the substance which was king David’s.

31. And they shall make
themselves utterly bald for thee, and gird them with sackcloth, and
they shall weep for thee with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.

32. Also Jonathan David’s uncle was a counsellor, a wise man, and a
scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king’s sons:

32. And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee,
and lament over thee, saying, What city is like Tyrus, like the
destroyed in the midst of the sea?

33. And Ahithophel was the king’s counsellor: and Hushai the Archite was
the king’s companion:

33. When thy wares went forth
out of the seas, thou filledst many people; thou didst enrich the
kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy
merchandise.

34. And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son
of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king’s army was Joab.

34. In the time when thou shalt be broken by the seas in the depths
of the waters thy merchandise and all thy company in the midst of thee
shall fall.

35. All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at thee,
and their kings shall be sore afraid, they shall be troubled in their
countenance.

36. The merchants among the people shall hiss at thee; thou shalt be
a terror, and never shalt be any more.