1. At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.

1. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious
against the workers of iniquity.

1. And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent
his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the
house of the LORD.

1. And king Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah the
son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the
land of Judah.

1. The hand of the LORD was upon me, and carried me out in the
spirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley which
was full of bones,

2. Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth
out of his mouth.

2. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the
green herb.

2. And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the
scribe, and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth, unto
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.

2. But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did
hearken unto the words of the LORD, which he spake by the prophet
Jeremiah.

2. And caused me to pass by them round about:
and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they
were very dry.

3. He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto
the ends of the earth.

3. Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land,
and verily thou shalt be fed.

3. And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of
trouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are come to
the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

3. And Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and
Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest to the prophet Jeremiah,
saying, Pray now unto the LORD our God for us.

3. And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I
answered, O Lord GOD, thou knowest.

4. After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his
excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard.

4. Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the
desires of thine heart.

4. It may be the LORD thy God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom
the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God,
and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard:
wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.

4. Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they had
not put him into prison.

4. Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto
them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.

5. God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth
he, which we cannot comprehend.

5. Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall
bring it to pass.

5. So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

5. Then Pharaoh’s army was come forth out of Egypt: and when the
Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed
from Jerusalem.

5. Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones; Behold, I will cause
breath to enter into you, and ye shall live:

6. For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the
small rain, and to the great rain of his strength.

6. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy
judgment as the noonday.

6. And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say unto your master,
Thus saith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard,
wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.

6. Then came the word of the LORD unto the prophet Jeremiah saying,

6. And I will lay
sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with
skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that
I am the LORD.

7. He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his
work.

7. Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself
because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who
bringeth wicked devices to pass.

7. Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour,
and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword
in his own land.

7. Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Thus shall ye say to the
king of Judah, that sent you unto me to enquire of me; Behold,
Pharaoh’s army, which is come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt
into their own land.

7. So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there
was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone
to his bone.

8. Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places.

8. Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise
to do evil.

8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring
against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.

8. And the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city,
and take it, and burn it with fire.

8. And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon
them, and the skin covered them above: but there was no breath in
them.

9. Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north.

9. For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the
LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

9. And he heard say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is come
forth to make war with thee. And when he heard it, he sent messengers
to Hezekiah, saying,

9. Thus saith the LORD; Deceive not yourselves, saying, The
Chaldeans shall surely depart from us: for they shall not depart.

9. Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of
man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Come from the four
winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.

10. By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the
waters is straitened.

10. For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou
shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.

10. Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of
Judah, saying, Let not thy God, in whom thou trustest, deceive thee,
saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of
Assyria.

10. For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that
fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yet
should they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with
fire.

10. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into
them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great
army.

11. Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his
bright cloud:

11. But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight
themselves in the abundance of peace.

11. Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to
all lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be delivered?

11. And it came to pass, that when the army of the Chaldeans was
broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army,

11. Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole
house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope
is lost: we are cut off for our parts.

12. And it is turned round about by his counsels: that
they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world
in the earth.

12. The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with
his teeth.

12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers
have destroyed, as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of
Eden which were in Telassar?

12. Then
Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin,
to separate himself thence in the midst of the people.

12. Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, O my people, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up
out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel.

13. He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land,
or for mercy.

13. The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is
coming.

13. Where is the king of Hamath, and
the king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and
Ivah?

13. And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward
was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of
Hananiah; and he took Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou fallest away
to the Chaldeans.

13. And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened your
graves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves,

14. Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous
works of God.

14. The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to
cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright
conversation.

14. And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the
messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up unto the house of the
LORD, and spread it before the LORD.

14. Then said Jeremiah, It is false; I fall not away to the
Chaldeans.

But he hearkened not to him: so Irijah took Jeremiah, and brought him
to the princes.

14. And
shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I shall place you
in your own land: then shall ye know that I the LORD have spoken it,
and performed it, saith the LORD.

15. Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of
his cloud to shine?

15. Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows
shall be broken.

15. And Hezekiah prayed unto the LORD, saying,

15. Wherefore the princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him,
and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe: for they
had made that the prison.

15. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

16. Dost thou know the balancings of the
clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?

16. A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of
many wicked.

16. O LORD of
hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims, thou art
the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth: thou hast
made heaven and earth.

16. When Jeremiah was entered into the dungeon, and into the cabins,
and Jeremiah had remained there many days;

16. Moreover,
thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah,
and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another
stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim and for all
the house of Israel his companions:

17. How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the
south wind?

17. For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD
upholdeth the righteous.

17. Incline thine ear, O LORD, and hear; open thine eyes, O LORD,
and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent to
reproach the living God.

17. Then Zedekiah the
king sent, and took him out: and the king asked him secretly in his
house, and said, Is there any word from the LORD? And Jeremiah said,
There is: for, said he, thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the
king of Babylon.

17. And join them one to another
into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand.

18. Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is
strong, and as a molten looking glass?

18. The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance
shall be for ever.

18. Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the
nations, and their countries,

18. Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What have I offended
against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye
have put me in prison?

18. And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee,
saying, Wilt thou not shew us what thou meanest by these?

19. Teach us what we shall
say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.

19. They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of
famine they shall be satisfied.

19. And have cast their gods into the
fire: for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and
stone: therefore they have destroyed them.

19. Where are now your prophets which
prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come
against you, nor against this land?

19. Say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the stick of
Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his
fellows, and will put them with him, even with the stick of Judah, and
make them one stick, and they shall be one in mine hand.

20. Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he
shall be swallowed up.

20. But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall
be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they
consume away.

20. Now therefore, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all
the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the LORD, even thou
only.

20. Therefore hear now, I pray
thee, O my lord the king: let my supplication, I pray thee, be
accepted before thee; that thou cause me not to return to the house of
Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.

20. And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thine hand
before their eyes.

21. And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but
the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.

21. The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous
sheweth mercy, and giveth.

21. Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus
saith the LORD God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me against
Sennacherib king of Assyria:

21. Then Zedekiah the king commanded that they should commit
Jeremiah into the court of the prison, and that they should give him
daily a piece of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread
in the city were spent.

Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.

21. And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take
the children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone,
and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own
land:

22. Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible
majesty.

22. For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they
that be cursed of him shall be cut off.

22. This is the word which the LORD
hath spoken concerning him; The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath
despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem
hath shaken her head at thee.

22. And I will make them one nation in the land upon the
mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all: and they
shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two
kingdoms any more at all.

23. Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent
in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not
afflict.

23. The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he
delighteth in his way.

23. Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast
thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against
the Holy One of Israel.

23. Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols,
nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their
transgressions: but I will save them out of all their dwellingplaces,
wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my
people, and I will be their God.

24. Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise
of heart.

24. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD
upholdeth him with his hand.

24. By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, By
the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the
mountains, to the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall
cedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter
into the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel.

24. And David my servant shall be king over them; and they all shall
have one shepherd: they shall also walk in my judgments, and observe
my statutes, and do them.

25. I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the
righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.

25. I have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feet
have I dried up all the rivers of the besieged places.

25. And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my
servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt; and they shall dwell
therein, even they, and their children, and their children’s children
for ever: and my servant David shall be their prince for ever.

26. He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.

26. Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of ancient
times, that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou
shouldest be to lay waste defenced cities into ruinous heaps.

26. Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be
an everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiply
them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.

27. Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

27. Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were
dismayed and confounded: they were as the grass of the field, and as
the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted
before it be grown up.

27. My tabernacle also shall be with them: yea, I will be their God,
and they shall be my people.

28. For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they
are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.

28. But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and
thy rage against me.

28. And the heathen shall know that I the LORD do sanctify Israel,
when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.

29. The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for
ever.

29. Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up into
mine ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in
thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.

30. The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue
talketh of judgment.

30. And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such
as groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth of the
same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and
eat the fruit thereof.

31. The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall
slide.

31. And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward:

32. The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.

32. For out of
Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out of mount
Zion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

33. The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he
is judged.

33. Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He
shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come
before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it.

34. Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to
inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.

34. By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall
not come into this city, saith the LORD.

35. I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself
like a green bay tree.

35. For I will defend this city to save it for mine own sake, and
for my servant David’s sake.

36. Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but
he could not be found.

36. Then the angel of the LORD went forth, and smote in the camp of
the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand: and when they
arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.

37. Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of
that man is peace.

37. So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned,
and dwelt at Nineveh.

38. But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of
the wicked shall be cut off.

38. And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of
Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with
the sword; and they escaped into the land of Armenia: and Esarhaddon
his son reigned in his stead.

39. But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their
strength in the time of trouble.

40. And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver
them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.