1. Then Job answered the LORD, and said,

1. As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul
after thee, O God.

1. Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul
delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth
judgment to the Gentiles.

1. Then all the captains of the forces, and Johanan the son of
Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the
least even unto the greatest, came near,

1. Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way toward the
north: and he brought me into the chamber that was over against the
separate place, and which was before the building toward the north.

2. I know that thou canst
do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee.

2. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come
and appear before God?

2. He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in
the street.

2. And said unto Jeremiah
the prophet, Let, we beseech thee, our supplication be accepted before
thee, and pray for us unto the LORD thy God, even for all this
remnant; (for we are left but a few of many, as thine eyes do behold
us:)

2. Before the length of an hundred cubits was the north door, and
the breadth was fifty cubits.

3. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I
uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I
knew not.

3. My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually
say unto me, Where is thy God?

3. A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he
not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.

3. That the LORD thy God may shew us the way wherein we may
walk, and the thing that we may do.

3. Over against the twenty cubits which were for the inner court,
and over against the pavement which was for the utter court, was
gallery against gallery in three stories.

4. Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee,
and declare thou unto me.

4. When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had
gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with
the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

4. He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment
in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.

4. Then Jeremiah the prophet said unto them, I have heard you;
behold, I will pray unto the LORD your God according to your words;
and it shall come to pass, that whatsoever thing the LORD shall answer
you, I will declare it unto you; I will keep nothing back from you.

4. And before the chambers was a walk to ten cubits breadth inward,
a way of one cubit; and their doors toward the north.

5. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye
seeth thee.

5. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in
me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his
countenance.

5. Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, and
stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which
cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and
spirit to them that walk therein:

5. Then they said to Jeremiah, The LORD be a true and faithful
witness between us, if we do not even according to all things for the
which the LORD thy God shall send thee to us.

5. Now the upper chambers were shorter: for the galleries were
higher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of the
building.

6. Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.

6. O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I
remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the
hill Mizar.

6. I the LORD have called thee in
righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give
thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles;

6. Whether it be good, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice
of the LORD our God, to whom we send thee; that it may be well with
us, when we obey the voice of the LORD our God.

6. For they were in three stories, but had not pillars as the
pillars of the courts: therefore the building was straitened more than
the lowest and the middlemost from the ground.

7. And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto
Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled
against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of
me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.

7. Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy
waves and thy billows are gone over me.

7. To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison,
and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house.

7. And it came to pass after ten days, that the word of the LORD
came unto Jeremiah.

7. And the wall that was without over against the chambers, toward
the utter court on the forepart of the chambers, the length thereof
was fifty cubits.

8. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go
to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and
my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal
with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing
which is right, like my servant Job.

8. Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and
in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of
my life.

8. I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to
another, neither my praise to graven images.

8. Then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of
the forces which were with him, and all the people from the least even
to the greatest,

8. For the length of the chambers that were in the utter court was
fifty cubits: and, lo, before the temple were an hundred cubits.

9. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the
Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the
LORD also accepted Job.

9. I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I
mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

9. Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I
declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.

9. And said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, the God
of Israel, unto whom ye sent me to present your supplication before
him;

9. And from under these chambers was the entry on the east side, as
one goeth into them from the utter court.

10. And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his
friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.

10. As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while
they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?

10. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the end of
the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the
isles, and the inhabitants thereof.

10. If ye will still abide in this land, then will I build you,
and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up: for
I repent me of the evil that I have done unto you.

10. The chambers were in the thickness of the wall of the court
toward the east, over against the separate place, and over against the
building.

11. Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters,
and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat
bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him
over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also
gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.

11. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the
health of my countenance, and my God.

11. Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice,
the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock
sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.

11. Be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom ye are afraid; be
not afraid of him, saith the LORD: for I am with you to save you, and
to deliver you from his hand.

11. And the way before them was like the appearance of the chambers
which were toward the north, as long as they, and as broad as they:
and all their goings out were both according to their fashions, and
according to their doors.

12. So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his
beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand
camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.

12. Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the
islands.

12. And I will shew mercies unto you, that he may have mercy upon
you, and cause you to return to your own land.

12. And according to the doors of the chambers that were toward the
south was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly before
the wall toward the east, as one entereth into them.

13. He had also seven sons and three daughters.

13. The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up
jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail
against his enemies.

13. But if ye say, We will not dwell in this land, neither obey the
voice of the LORD your God,

13. Then said he unto me, The north chambers and the south chambers,
which are before the separate place, they be holy chambers, where the
priests that approach unto the LORD shall eat the most holy things:
there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat offering, and
the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place is holy.

14. And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the
second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch.

14. I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and
refrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I will
destroy and devour at once.

14. Saying, No; but we will go into the
land of Egypt, where we shall see no war, nor hear the sound of the
trumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and there will we dwell:

14. When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of
the holy place into the utter court, but there they shall lay their
garments wherein they minister; for they are holy; and shall put on
other garments, and shall approach to those things which are for the
people.

15. And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters
of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.

15. I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their
herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the
pools.

15. And
now therefore hear the word of the LORD, ye remnant of Judah; Thus
saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; If ye wholly set your
faces to enter into Egypt, and go to sojourn there;

15. Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he
brought me forth toward the gate whose prospect is toward the east,
and measured it round about.

16. After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his
sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.

16. And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will
lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness
light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do
unto them, and not forsake them.

16. Then it
shall come to pass, that the sword, which ye feared, shall overtake
you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine, whereof ye were
afraid, shall follow close after you there in Egypt; and there ye
shall die.

16. He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred
reeds, with the measuring reed round about.

17. So Job died, being old and full of days.




The Book of Psalms

17. They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that
trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are our
gods.

17. So shall it be with all the men that set their faces to go into
Egypt to sojourn there; they shall die by the sword, by the famine,
and by the pestilence: and none of them shall remain or escape from
the evil that I will bring upon them.

17. He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the
measuring reed round about.

18. Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.

18. For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As mine
anger and my fury hath been poured forth upon the inhabitants of
Jerusalem; so shall my fury be poured forth upon you, when ye shall
enter into Egypt: and ye shall be an execration, and an astonishment,
and a curse, and a reproach; and ye shall see this place no more.

18. He measured the south side, five hundred reeds, with the
measuring reed.

19. Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I
sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the LORD’s
servant?

19. The LORD hath said concerning you, O ye remnant of Judah; Go ye
not into Egypt: know certainly that I have admonished you this day.

19. He turned about to the west side, and measured five hundred
reeds with the measuring reed.

20. Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening
the ears, but he heareth not.

20. For ye dissembled in your hearts, when ye sent me unto the LORD
your God, saying, Pray for us unto the LORD our God; and according
unto all that the LORD our God shall say, so declare unto us, and we
will do it.

20. He measured it by the four sides: it had a wall round about,
five hundred reeds long, and five hundred broad, to make a separation
between the sanctuary and the profane place.

21. The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness’ sake; he will
magnify the law, and make it honourable.

21. And now I have this day declared it to you; but ye have not
obeyed the voice of the LORD your God, nor any thing for the which he
hath sent me unto you.

22. But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of them
snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for a
prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.

22. Now therefore know certainly that ye shall die by the sword, by
the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place whither ye desire to
go and to sojourn.

23. Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hear
for the time to come?

24. Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to
the robbers? did not the LORD, he against whom we have sinned? for
they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his
law.

25. Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the
strength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet he
knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.