1. Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron, and
spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

1. And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon; for he had
heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father: for
Hiram was ever a lover of David.

1. Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great
man with his master, and honourable, because by him the LORD had given
deliverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man in valour, but he was
a leper.

1. Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the
firstborn; but forasmuch as he defiled his father’s bed, his
birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: and
the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.

1. Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was
finished: and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father
had dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments,
put he among the treasures of the house of God.

1. Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of
Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the
name of the God of Israel, even unto them.

1. And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against
their brethren the Jews.

1. Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal
apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king’s house, over
against the king’s house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in
the royal house, over against the gate of the house.

1. Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of
the saints wilt thou turn?

1. Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

1. My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my
understanding:

1. Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more
ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider
not that they do evil.

1. I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my
myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have
drunk my wine with my milk: eat, O friends; drink, yea, drink
abundantly, O beloved.

1. Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching
his vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill:

1. Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now,
and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man,
if there be any that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I
will pardon it.

1. Remember, O LORD, what is come upon us: consider, and behold our
reproach.

1. And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a
barber’s razor, and cause it to pass upon thine head and upon thy
beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and divide the hair.

1. Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords,
and drank wine before the thousand.

1. Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give
ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye
have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.

2. Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that
leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD said to thee, Thou
shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over Israel.

2. And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,

2. And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought away
captive out of the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited on
Naaman’s wife.

2. For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief
ruler; but the birthright was Joseph’s:)

2. Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of
the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto
Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the
city of David, which is Zion.

2. Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son
of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem:
and with them were the prophets of God helping them.

2. For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters, are
many: therefore we take up corn for them, that we may eat, and live.

2. And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the
court, that she obtained favour in his sight: and the king held out to
Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near,
and touched the top of the sceptre.

2. For wrath killeth the foolish man, and
envy slayeth the silly one.

2. Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto
thee will I pray.

2. That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy
lips may keep knowledge.

2. Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to
utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth:
therefore let thy words be few.

2. I sleep, but my heart waketh: it is the voice of my beloved that
knocketh, saying, Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my
undefiled: for my head is filled with dew, and my locks with the drops
of the night.

2. And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted
it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and
also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring
forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

2. And though they say, The LORD liveth; surely they swear falsely.

2. Our inheritance is turned to strangers, our houses to aliens.

2. Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city,
when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and thou shalt take a third
part, and smite about it with a knife: and a third part thou shalt
scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them.

2. Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the
golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken
out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and his
princes, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.

2. And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have
been a rebuker of them all.

3. So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and king
David made a league with them in Hebron before the LORD: and they
anointed David king over Israel.

3. Thou knowest how that David
my father could not build an house unto the name of the LORD his God
for the wars which were about him on every side, until the LORD put
them under the soles of his feet.

3. And she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were with the
prophet that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy.

3. The sons, I say, of
Reuben the firstborn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and
Carmi.

3. Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king
in the feast which was in the seventh month.

3. At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus unto
them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this
wall?

3. Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands,
vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the dearth.

3. Then said the king unto her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? and
what is thy request? it shall be even given thee to the half of the
kingdom.

3. I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his
habitation.

3. My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning
will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

3. For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her
mouth is smoother than oil:

3. For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool’s
voice is known by multitude of words.

3. I have put off my coat; how shall I put it on? I have washed my
feet; how shall I defile them?

3. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I
pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.

3. O LORD, are not thine eyes upon the truth? thou hast stricken
them, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, but they
have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder
than a rock; they have refused to return.

3. We are orphans and fatherless, our mothers are as widows.

3. Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thy
skirts.

3. Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the
temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and
his princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.

3. I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim,
thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.

4. David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
forty years.

4. But now the LORD my God hath given me rest on every side, so that
there is neither adversary nor evil occurrent.

4. And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the
maid that is of the land of Israel.

4. The sons of Joel; Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,

4. And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up the
ark.

4. Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the
names of the men that make this building?

4. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king’s
tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.

4. And Esther answered, If it seem good unto the king, let the king
and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.

4. His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the
gate, neither is there any to deliver them.

4. For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither
shall evil dwell with thee.

4. But her end is bitter as wormwood,
sharp as a two-edged sword.

4. When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath
no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.

4. My beloved put in his hand by the
hole of the door, and my bowels were moved for him.

4. What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not
done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth
grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?

4. Therefore I said, Surely these are poor; they are foolish: for
they know not the way of the LORD, nor the judgment of their God.

4. We have drunken our water for money; our wood is sold unto us.

4. Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire,
and burn them in the fire; for thereof shall a fire come forth into
all the house of Israel.

4. They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of
brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

4. They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the
spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known
the LORD.

5. In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months: and in
Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah.

5. And, behold, I purpose to build an house unto the name of the LORD
my God, as the LORD spake unto David my father, saying, Thy son, whom
I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build an house unto
my name.

5. And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter
unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and took with him ten
talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of
raiment.

5. Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son,

5. And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of the
congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle,
these did the priests and the Levites bring up.

5. But the eye of their
God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to
cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer
by letter concerning this matter.

5. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as
their children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our
daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto
bondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for other
men have our lands and vineyards.

5. Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that he may do as
Esther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet that
Esther had prepared.

5. Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the
thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.

5. The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers
of iniquity.

5. Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.

5. Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest
vow and not pay.

5. I rose up to open to my beloved; and my hands dropped with myrrh,
and my fingers with sweet smelling myrrh, upon the handles of the
lock.

5. And now go to; I will tell
you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof,
and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wall thereof, and it
shall be trodden down:

5. I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; for
they have known the way of the LORD, and the judgment of their God:
but these have altogether broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.

5. Our necks are under persecution: we labour, and have no rest.

5. Thus saith the Lord GOD; This is Jerusalem: I have set it in the
midst of the nations and countries that are round about her.

5. In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote
over against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the
king’s palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.

5. And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall
Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with
them.

6. And the king and his men went to Jerusalem unto the Jebusites, the
inhabitants of the land: which spake unto David, saying, Except thou
take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither:
thinking, David cannot come in hither.

6. Now therefore command thou that they hew me cedar trees out of
Lebanon; and my servants shall be with thy servants: and unto thee
will I give hire for thy servants according to all that thou shalt
appoint: for thou knowest that there is not among us any that can
skill to hew timber like unto the Sidonians.

6. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when
this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my
servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy.

6. Beerah his son,
whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was
prince of the Reubenites.

6. Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were
assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which
could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

6. The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and his companions the Apharsachites, which
were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king:

6. And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.

6. And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, What is thy
petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even
to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.

6. Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth
trouble spring out of the ground;

6. Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor
the bloody and deceitful man.

6. Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are
moveable, that thou canst not know them.

6. Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou
before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry
at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?

6. I opened to my beloved; but my beloved had withdrawn himself, and
was gone: my soul failed when he spake: I sought him, but I could not
find him; I called him, but he gave me no answer.

6. And I will lay it waste: it shall not be
pruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will
also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

6. Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of
the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their
cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces:
because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings are
increased.

6. We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the Assyrians, to
be satisfied with bread.

6. And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than the
nations, and my statutes more than the countries that are round about
her: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not
walked in them.

6. Then the king’s countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled
him, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote
one against another.

6. They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the
LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from
them.

7. Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion: the same is the
city of David.

7. And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that
he rejoiced greatly, and said, Blessed be the LORD this day, which
hath given unto David a wise son over this great people.

7. And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter,
that he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make
alive, that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his
leprosy? wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a
quarrel against me.

7. And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their
generations was reckoned, were the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,

7. And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD
unto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy place,
even under the wings of the cherubims:

7. They sent
a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all
peace.

7. Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and the
rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother.
And I set a great assembly against them.

7. Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is;

7. Yet man is born unto trouble, as
the sparks fly upward.

7. But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy
mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

7. Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the
words of my mouth.

7. For in the
multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but
fear thou God.

7. The watchmen that went about the city found me, they smote me,
they wounded me; the keepers of the walls took away my veil from me.

7. For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and
the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but
behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.

7. How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken me,
and sworn by them that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full,
they then committed adultery, and assembled themselves by troops in
the harlots’ houses.

7. Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their
iniquities.

7. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye multiplied more than
the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in my
statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done according
to the judgments of the nations that are round about you;

7. The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans,
and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men of
Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me the
interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a
chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the
kingdom.

7. They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have
begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their
portions.

8. And David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up to the gutter,
and smiteth the Jebusites, and the lame and the blind that are hated
of David’s soul, he shall be chief and captain. Wherefore they said,
The blind and the lame shall not come into the house.

8. And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, I have considered the things
which thou sentest to me for: and I will do all thy desire concerning
timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.

8. And it was so, when Elisha the man of God had heard that the king
of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying,
Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? let him come now to me, and he
shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.

8. And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt
in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon:

8. For the cherubims spread
forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered
the ark and the staves thereof above.

8. Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of
Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great
stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on,
and prospereth in their hands.

8. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our
brethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen; and will ye even
sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they
their peace, and found nothing to answer.

8. If I have found favour in the sight of the king, and if it please the
king to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king and
Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do
to morrow as the king hath said.

8. I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause:

8. Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies;
make thy way straight before my face.

8. Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her
house:

8. If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting
of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for
he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than
they.

8. I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if ye find my beloved,
that ye tell him, that I am sick of love.

8. Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field,
till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of
the earth!

8. They were as fed horses in the morning: every one neighed after
his neighbour’s wife.

8. Servants have ruled over us: there is none that doth deliver us
out of their hand.

8. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, am against thee,
and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of the
nations.

8. Then came in all the king’s wise men: but they could not read the
writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.

8. Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud
at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin.

9. So David dwelt in the fort, and called it the city of David. And
David built round about from Millo and inward.

9. My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea: and I
will convey them by sea in floats unto the place that thou shalt
appoint me, and will cause them to be discharged there, and thou shalt
receive them: and thou shalt accomplish my desire, in giving food for
my household.

9. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at
the door of the house of Elisha.

9. And eastward he inhabited
unto the entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates:
because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.

9. And they drew out the staves of the ark, that the ends of the
staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not
seen without. And there it is unto this day.

9. Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded
you to build this house, and to make up these walls?

9. Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk in
the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our
enemies?

9. Then went Haman forth that day joyful and with a glad heart: but
when Haman saw Mordecai in the king’s gate, that he stood not up, nor
moved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai.

9. Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without
number:

9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is
very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with
their tongue.

9. Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto
the cruel:

9. Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is
served by the field.

9. What is thy beloved more than another beloved, O thou fairest
among women? what is thy beloved more than another beloved, that thou
dost so charge us?

9. In mine ears said the LORD of hosts, Of a truth many
houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant.

9. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: and shall not
my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

9. We gat our bread with the peril of our lives because of the sword
of the wilderness.

9. And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto I
will not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations.

9. Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was
changed in him, and his lords were astonied.

9. Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes
of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.

10. And David went on, and grew great, and the LORD God of hosts was
with him.

10. So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to all
his desire.

10. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in
Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou
shalt be clean.

10. And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who
fell by their hand: and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the
east land of Gilead.

10. There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put
therein at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of
Israel, when they came out of Egypt.

10. We asked
their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of
the men that were the chief of them.

10. I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might
exact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.

10. Nevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, he
sent and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.

10. Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon
the fields:

10. Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels;
cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have
rebelled against thee.

10. Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy
labours be in the house of a stranger;

10. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he
that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.

10. My beloved is white and ruddy, the chiefest
among ten thousand.

10. Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of
an homer shall yield an ephah.

10. Go ye up upon her
walls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away her
battlements; for they are not the LORD’s.

10. Our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine.

10. Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee,
and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in
thee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds.

10. Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords
came into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king,
live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy
countenance be changed:

10. The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound:
therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.

11. And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees,
and carpenters, and masons: and they built David an house.

11. And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food
to his household, and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Solomon
to Hiram year by year.

11. But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought,
He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the
LORD his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the
leper.

11. And the children of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of
Bashan unto Salcah:

11. And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy
place: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, and did
not then wait by course:

11. And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of
the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded
these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.

11. Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their
vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth part
of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of
them.

11. And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the multitude
of his children, and all the things wherein the king had promoted him,
and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the
king.

11. To set up on high those that be low; that those which
mourn may be exalted to safety.

11. But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them
ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that
love thy name be joyful in thee.

11. And thou mourn at the
last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed,

11. When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what
good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with
their eyes?

11. His head is as the most fine gold, his locks are bushy, and black
as a raven.

11. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may
follow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflame
them!

11. For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very
treacherously against me, saith the LORD.

11. They ravished the women in Zion, and the maids in the cities of
Judah.

11. Wherefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thou
hast defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all
thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee; neither shall
mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity.

11. There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is
the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and
understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in
him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy
father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and
soothsayers;

11. Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly
walked after the commandment.

12. And David perceived that the LORD had established him king over
Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel’s
sake.

12. And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him: and there
was peace between Hiram and Solomon; and they two made a league
together.

12. Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all
the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he
turned and went away in a rage.

12. Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, and
Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.

12. Also the Levites which were the singers,
all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their
brethren, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries
and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them an
hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:)

12. But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto
wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the
people away into Babylon.

12. Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of
them; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, and
took an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise.

12. Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in
with the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and
to morrow am I invited unto her also with the king.

12. He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands
cannot perform their enterprise.

12. For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou
compass him as with a shield.

12. And say, How have
I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;

12. The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he
eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him
to sleep.

12. His eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters, washed
with milk, and fitly set.

12. And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and
wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the LORD,
neither consider the operation of his hands.

12. They have belied the LORD, and said, It is not he; neither shall
evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine:

12. Princes are hanged up by their hand: the faces of elders were not
honoured.

12. A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with
famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part
shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third
part into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them.

12. Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and
understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences,
and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king
named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the
interpretation.

12. Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of
Judah as rottenness.

13. And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem,
after he was come from Hebron: and there were yet sons and daughters
born to David.

13. And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel; and the levy
was thirty thousand men.

13. And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My
father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou
not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash,
and be clean?

13. And their brethren of the house of their fathers were, Michael,
and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber,
seven.

13. It came even
to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound
to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they lifted up
their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick,
and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth
for ever: that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house
of the LORD;

13. But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king
Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God.

13. Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from
his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even
thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,
Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did according to this
promise.

13. Yet all this availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai the
Jew sitting at the king’s gate.

13. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of
the froward is carried headlong.

13. And have not
obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that
instructed me!

13. There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely,
riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.

13. His cheeks are as a bed of spices, as sweet flowers: his lips
like lilies, dropping sweet smelling myrrh.

13. Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they have no
knowledge: and their honourable men are famished, and their multitude
dried up with thirst.

13. And the
prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall it
be done unto them.

13. They took the young men to grind, and the children fell under the
wood.

13. Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury
to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know that I
the LORD have spoken it in my zeal, when I have accomplished my fury
in them.

13. Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spake
and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children
of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of
Jewry?

13. When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went
Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal
you, nor cure you of your wound.

14. And these be the names of those that were born unto him in
Jerusalem; Shammuah, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,

14. And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses: a
month they were in Lebanon, and two months at home: and Adoniram was
over the levy.

14. Then went he down, and dipped himself seven times
in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh
came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.

14. These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of
Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai,
the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;

14. So that the priests could not stand to minister by
reason of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of
God.

14. And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God,
which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and
brought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take
out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose
name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;

14. Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor
in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and my
brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor.

14. Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a
gallows be made of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto
the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go thou in merrily
with the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman; and he
caused the gallows to be made.

14. They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday
as in the night.

14. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the
congregation and assembly.

14. But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son,
and there is nothing in his hand.

14. His hands are as gold rings set with the beryl: his belly is as
bright ivory overlaid with sapphires.

14. Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth
without measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp,
and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.

14. Wherefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, Because ye speak this
word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and this people
wood, and it shall devour them.

14. The elders have ceased from the gate, the young men from their
musick.

14. Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the nations
that are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by.

14. I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is
in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is
found in thee.

14. For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the
house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away,
and none shall rescue him.

15. Ibhar
also, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

15. And Solomon had threescore and ten thousand that bare burdens,
and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains;

15. And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and
came, and stood before him: and he said, Behold, now I know that there
is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee,
take a blessing of thy servant.

15. Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son
of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.

15. And said unto
him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in
Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place.

15. But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable
unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside forty
shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people:
but so did not I, because of the fear of God.

15. But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from
the hand of the mighty.

15. Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of
thine own well.

15. As he came forth of his mother’s womb, naked shall he return to
go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may
carry away in his hand.

15. His legs are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold:
his countenance is as Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.

15. And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall
be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled:

15. Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel,
saith the LORD: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient nation, a
nation whose language thou knowest not, neither understandest what
they say.

15. The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance is turned into
mourning.

15. So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an
astonishment unto the nations that are round about thee, when I shall
execute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes.
I the LORD have spoken it.

15. And now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought in
before me, that they should read this writing, and make known unto me
the interpretation thereof: but they could not shew the interpretation
of the thing:

15. I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their
offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me
early.

16. And Elishama, and
Eliada, and Eliphalet.

16. Beside the chief
of Solomon’s officers which were over the work, three thousand and
three hundred, which ruled over the people that wrought in the work.

16. But he said, As the LORD liveth, before whom I stand, I will
receive none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused.

16. And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all
the suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders.

16. Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the
house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now
hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished.

16. Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we
any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work.

16. So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.

16. Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in
the streets.

16. And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so
shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?

16. His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my
beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.

16. But the
LORD of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall
be sanctified in righteousness.

16. Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all mighty men.

16. The crown is fallen from our head: woe unto us, that we have
sinned!

16. When I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which
shall be for their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you:
and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff of
bread:

16. And I have heard of thee, that thou canst make
interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read the
writing, and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt
be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and
shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom.

17. But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king
over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David; and David
heard of it, and went down to the hold.

17. And the king commanded, and they brought great stones, costly
stones, and hewed stones, to lay the foundation of the house.

17. And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I pray thee, be given to
thy servant two mules’ burden of earth? for thy servant will
henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods,
but unto the LORD.

17. All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king
of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.

17. Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search
made in the king’s treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether
it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house
of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us
concerning this matter.

17. Moreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jews
and rulers, beside those that came unto us from among the heathen that
are about us.

17. Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise
not thou the chastening of the Almighty:

17. Let them be only thine own, and not strangers’ with thee.

17. All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow
and wrath with his sickness.

17. Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste
places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.

17. And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, which thy
sons and thy daughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks and
thine herds: they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shall
impoverish thy fenced cities, wherein thou trustedst, with the sword.

17. For this our heart is faint; for these things our eyes
are dim.

17. So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they
shall bereave thee: and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee;
and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have spoken it.

17. Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let thy gifts be
to thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read the
writing unto the king, and make known to him the interpretation.

18. The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

18. And Solomon’s builders and Hiram’s builders did hew them, and the
stonesquarers: so they prepared timber and stones to build the house.

18. In this thing the LORD pardon thy servant, that when my master
goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my
hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I bow down myself
in the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon thy servant in this thing.

18. The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and half the tribe of
Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to
shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four and forty thousand seven
hundred and threescore, that went out to the war.

18. Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six
choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days
store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this required not I the bread
of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people.

18. For he maketh sore, and
bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.

18. Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy
youth.

18. Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to
eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he
taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him:
for it is his portion.

18. Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as
it were with a cart rope:

18. Nevertheless in those days, saith the LORD, I will not make a
full end with you.

18. Because of the mountain of Zion, which is desolate, the foxes
walk upon it.

18. O thou king, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a
kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honour:

19. And David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up to the
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD said
unto David, Go up: for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into
thine hand.

19. And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a
little way.

19. And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish,
and Nodab.

19. Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I have
done for this people.

19. He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall
no evil touch thee.

19. Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts
satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.

19. Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath
given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to
rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God.

19. That say, Let him make speed, and
hasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Holy
One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it!

19. And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the
LORD our God all these things unto us? then shalt thou answer them,
Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strange gods in your land, so
shall ye serve strangers in a land that is not yours.

19. Thou, O LORD, remainest for ever; thy throne from generation to
generation.

19. And for the majesty
that he gave him, all people, nations, and languages, trembled and
feared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom he would he kept
alive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put down.

20. And David came to Baalperazim, and David smote them there, and
said, The LORD hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me, as the
breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place
Baalperazim.

20. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold,
my master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his
hands that which he brought: but, as the LORD liveth, I will run after
him, and take somewhat of him.

20. And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were
delivered into their hand, and all that were with them: for they cried
to God in the battle, and he was intreated of them; because they put
their trust in him.

20. In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the
power of the sword.

20. And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and
embrace the bosom of a stranger?

20. For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God
answereth him in the joy of his heart.

20. Woe unto
them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light,
and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for
bitter!

20. Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah,
saying,

20. Wherefore dost thou forget us for ever, and forsake us so long
time?

20. But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride,
he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from
him:

21. And there they left their images, and David and his men burned
them.

21. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running
after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is
all well?

21. And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand,
and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two
thousand, and of men an hundred thousand.

21. Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt
thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.

21. For the ways of man are before
the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.

21. Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, and
prudent in their own sight!

21. Hear now this, O foolish people, and without
understanding; which have eyes, and see not; which have ears, and hear
not:

21. Turn thou us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be turned;
renew our days as of old.

21. And he was driven from the sons of men; and his heart was
made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses: they
fed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of
heaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom of
men, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.

22. And the Philistines came up yet again, and spread themselves in
the valley of Rephaim.

22. And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me,
saying, Behold, even now there be come to me from mount Ephraim two
young men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pray thee, a
talent of silver, and two changes of garments.

22. For there fell down many slain, because the war was of God. And
they dwelt in their steads until the captivity.

22. At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be
afraid of the beasts of the earth.

22. His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be
holden with the cords of his sins.

22. Woe unto them that are mighty to
drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink:

22. Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will ye not tremble at my
presence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by a
perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof
toss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet can
they not pass over it?

22. But thou hast utterly rejected us; thou art very wroth against us.




The Book of the Prophet Ezekiel

22. And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart,
though thou knewest all this;

23. And when David enquired of the LORD, he said, Thou shalt not go
up; but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against
the mulberry trees.

23. And Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him,
and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of
garments, and laid them upon two of his servants; and they bare them
before him.

23. And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land:
they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and unto mount
Hermon.

23. For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the
beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.

23. He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his
folly he shall go astray.

23. Which
justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the
righteous from him!

23. But this people hath a revolting and a
rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone.

23. But hast lifted up thyself against
the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house
before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines,
have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and
gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor
know: and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thy
ways, hast thou not glorified:

24. And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops
of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself: for then
shall the LORD go out before thee, to smite the host of the
Philistines.

24. And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand, and
bestowed them in the house: and he let the men go, and they departed.

24. And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, even
Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah,
and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, and heads of the house
of their fathers.

24. And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and
thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.

24. Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble,
and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be as
rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have
cast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despised the word of the
Holy One of Israel.

24. Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the LORD our
God, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season:
he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest.

24. Then was the part of the hand sent
from him; and this writing was written.

25. And David did so, as the LORD had commanded him; and smote the
Philistines from Geba until thou come to Gazer.

25. But he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto
him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no
whither.

25. And they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went
a whoring after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed
before them.

25. Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine
offspring as the grass of the earth.

25. Therefore is the anger of the LORD kindled against his people,
and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten
them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in the
midst of the streets.

For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched
out still.

25. Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have
withholden good things from you.

25. And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL,
UPHARSIN.

26. And he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man
turned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive
money, and to receive garments, and oliveyards, and vineyards, and
sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants?

26. And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of
Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria, and he
carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half
tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara,
and to the river Gozan, unto this day.

26. Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of
corn cometh in in his season.

26. And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will
hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall come
with speed swiftly:

26. For among my people are found wicked men: they lay wait, as he
that setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men.

26. This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numbered
thy kingdom, and finished it.

27. The leprosy
therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for
ever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.

27. Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it
for thy good.

27. None shall be weary nor stumble among them;
none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins
be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:

27. As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit:
therefore they are become great, and waxen rich.

27. TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.

28. Whose arrows
are sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses’ hoofs shall be
counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind:

28. They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of
the wicked: they judge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet
they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge.

28. PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and
Persians.

29. Their
roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea,
they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it away
safe, and none shall deliver it.

29. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: shall not my
soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

29. Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet,
and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation
concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.

30. And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of
the sea: and if one look unto the land, behold darkness and sorrow,
and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

30. A wonderful and
horrible thing is committed in the land;

30. In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.

31. The prophets prophesy
falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love
to have it so: and what will ye do in the end thereof?

31. And Darius the Median took the kingdom, being about threescore
and two years old.