1. The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth
from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

1. Thus saith the LORD, Where is the bill of your mother’s
divorcement, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors is it to
whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold
yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.

1. The word that the LORD spake against Babylon and against the land
of the Chaldeans by Jeremiah the prophet.

2. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.

2. Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was
there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot
redeem? or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry up
the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stinketh, because
there is no water, and dieth for thirst.

2. Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard;
publish, and conceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is confounded,
Merodach is broken in pieces; her idols are confounded, her images are
broken in pieces.

3. Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall
devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.

3. I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their
covering.

3. For out of the north there cometh up a nation against her, which
shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they shall
remove, they shall depart, both man and beast.

4. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that
he may judge his people.

4. The Lord GOD hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I
should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: he
wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the
learned.

4. In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the children of
Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together, going and
weeping: they shall go, and seek the LORD their God.

5. Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a
covenant with me by sacrifice.

5. The Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious,
neither turned away back.

5. They shall ask the way to Zion with their faces thitherward,
saying, Come, and let us join ourselves to the LORD in a perpetual
covenant that shall not be forgotten.

6. And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge
himself. Selah.

6. I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked
off the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting.

6. My people hath been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them
to go astray, they have turned them away on the mountains: they have
gone from mountain to hill, they have forgotten their restingplace.

7. Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify
against thee: I am God, even thy God.

7. For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not be
confounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that
I shall not be ashamed.

7. All that found them have devoured them: and their adversaries
said, We offend not, because they have sinned against the LORD, the
habitation of justice, even the LORD, the hope of their fathers.

8. I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt
offerings, to have been continually before me.

8. He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let us
stand together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.

8. Remove out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land
of the Chaldeans, and be as the he goats before the flocks.

9. I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy
folds.

9. Behold, the Lord GOD will help me; who is he that shall condemn
me? lo, they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat them
up.

9. For, lo, I will raise and cause to come up against Babylon an
assembly of great nations from the north country: and they shall set
themselves in array against her; from thence she shall be taken: their
arrows shall be as of a mighty expert man; none shall return in vain.

10. For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a
thousand hills.

10. Who is among you that feareth the LORD, that obeyeth the voice
of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? let him
trust in the name of the LORD, and stay upon his God.

10. And Chaldea shall be a spoil: all that spoil her shall be
satisfied, saith the LORD.

11. I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of
the field are mine.

11. Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about
with sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks that ye
have kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down in
sorrow.

11. Because ye were glad, because ye rejoiced, O ye destroyers of
mine heritage, because ye are grown fat as the heifer at grass, and
bellow as bulls;

12. If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine,
and the fulness thereof.

12. Your mother shall be sore confounded; she that
bare you shall be ashamed: behold, the hindermost of the nations shall
be a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.

13. Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?

13. Because of the wrath of the LORD it shall not be inhabited, but
it shall be wholly desolate: every one that goeth by Babylon shall be
astonished, and hiss at all her plagues.

14. Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most
High:

14. Put yourselves in array against Babylon round about: all ye that
bend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she hath sinned
against the LORD.

15. And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.

15. Shout against her round about: she hath given her hand: her
foundations are fallen, her walls are thrown down: for it is the
vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, do
unto her.

16. But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare
my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?

16. Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle
in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall
turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own
land.

17. Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind
thee.

17. Israel is a scattered sheep; the lions have driven him away:
first the king of Assyria hath devoured him; and last this
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones.

18. When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and
hast been partaker with adulterers.

18. Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;
Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I have
punished the king of Assyria.

19. Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.

19. And I will bring Israel again to his habitation, and he shall
feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon mount
Ephraim and Gilead.

20. Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest
thine own mother’s son.

20. In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the iniquity of
Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of
Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I
reserve.

21. These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest
that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee,
and set them in order before thine eyes.

21. Go up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and
against the inhabitants of Pekod: waste and utterly destroy after
them, saith the LORD, and do according to all that I have commanded
thee.

22. Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in
pieces, and there be none to deliver.

22. A sound of battle is in the land, and of great destruction.

23. Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth
his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.

23. How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! how
is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!

24. I have laid a
snare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast not
aware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou hast striven
against the LORD.

25. The LORD hath opened his armoury, and hath brought forth the
weapons of his indignation: for this is the work of the Lord GOD of
hosts in the land of the Chaldeans.

26. Come against her from the utmost border, open her storehouses:
cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly: let nothing of her be
left.

27. Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe
unto them! for their day is come, the time of their visitation.

28. The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of
Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, the
vengeance of his temple.

29. Call together the archers against Babylon: all ye that bend the
bow, camp against it round about; let none thereof escape: recompense
her according to her work; according to all that she hath done, do
unto her: for she hath been proud against the LORD, against the Holy
One of Israel.

30. Therefore shall her young men fall in the streets, and all her
men of war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD.

31. Behold, I am against thee, O thou most proud, saith the Lord GOD
of hosts: for thy day is come, the time that I will visit thee.

32. And the most proud shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise
him up: and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour
all round about him.

33. Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The children of Israel and the
children of Judah were oppressed together: and all that took them
captives held them fast; they refused to let them go.

34. Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name: he
shall throughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the land,
and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.

35. A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith the LORD, and upon the
inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise men.

36. A sword is upon the liars; and they shall dote: a sword is upon
her mighty men; and they shall be dismayed.

37. A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and upon
all the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and they shall
become as women: a sword is upon her treasures; and they shall be
robbed.

38. A drought is upon her waters; and they shall be dried up: for it
is the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols.

39. Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts of
the islands shall dwell there, and the owls shall dwell therein: and
it shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be dwelt in
from generation to generation.

40. As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbour cities
thereof, saith the LORD; so shall no man abide there, neither shall
any son of man dwell therein.

41. Behold, a people shall come from the north, and a great nation,
and many kings shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth.

42. They shall hold the bow and the lance: they are cruel, and will
not shew mercy: their voice shall roar like the sea, and they shall
ride upon horses, every one put in array, like a man to the battle,
against thee, O daughter of Babylon.

43. The king of Babylon hath heard the report of them, and his hands
waxed feeble: anguish took hold of him, and pangs as of a woman in
travail.

44. Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan
unto the habitation of the strong: but I will make them suddenly run
away from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her?
for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is that
shepherd that will stand before me?

45. Therefore hear ye the
counsel of the LORD, that he hath taken against Babylon; and his
purposes, that he hath purposed against the land of the Chaldeans:
Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out: surely he shall
make their habitation desolate with them.

46. At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth is moved, and
the cry is heard among the nations.