1. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that
rise up against me.

1. Behold, the LORD’s hand is not shortened, that it cannot save;
neither his ear heavy, that it cannot hear:

2. Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody
men.

2. But your iniquities
have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his
face from you, that he will not hear.

3. For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered
against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.

3. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with
iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue hath muttered
perverseness.

4. They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help
me, and behold.

4. None calleth for justice, nor any pleadeth for truth: they trust
in vanity, and speak lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth
iniquity.

5. Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to
visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.
Selah.

5. They hatch cockatrice’ eggs, and weave the spider’s web: he that
eateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh out
into a viper.

6. They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go
round about the city.

6. Their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they cover
themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and
the act of violence is in their hands.

7. Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their
lips: for who, say they, doth hear?

7. Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent
blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; wasting and
destruction are in their paths.

8. But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the
heathen in derision.

8. The way of peace they know not; and there is no judgment in their
goings: they have made them crooked paths: whosoever goeth therein
shall not know peace.

9. Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my
defence.

9. Therefore is judgment far from us, neither doth justice overtake
us: we wait for light, but behold obscurity; for brightness, but we
walk in darkness.

10. The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my
desire upon mine enemies.

10. We grope for the wall like the blind, and we grope as if we had
no eyes: we stumble at noon day as in the night; we are in desolate
places as dead men.

11. Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power;
and bring them down, O Lord our shield.

11. We roar all like bears, and mourn sore like doves: we look for
judgment, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far off from us.

12. For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them
even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they
speak.

12. For our transgressions are multiplied before thee, and our sins
testify against us: for our transgressions are with us; and as for our
iniquities, we know them;

13. Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and
let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth.
Selah.

13. In transgressing and lying against the
LORD, and departing away from our God, speaking oppression and revolt,
conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.

14. And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a
dog, and go round about the city.

14. And judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth afar
off: for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.

15. Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not
satisfied.

15. Yea, truth faileth; and he that departeth from evil maketh
himself a prey: and the LORD saw it, and it displeased him that there
was no judgment.

16. But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy
mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the
day of my trouble.

16. And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no
intercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and his
righteousness, it sustained him.

17. Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence,
and the God of my mercy.

17. For he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and an helmet of
salvation upon his head; and he put on the garments of vengeance for
clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.

18. According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, fury to his
adversaries, recompence to his enemies; to the islands he will repay
recompence.

19. So shall they fear the name of the LORD from the west, and his
glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like a
flood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a standard against him.

20. And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn
from transgression in Jacob, saith the LORD.

21. As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the LORD; My
spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth,
shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed,
nor out of the mouth of thy seed’s seed, saith the LORD, from
henceforth and for ever.