1. Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel,
thirty thousand.

1. And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after
the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the
fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month Zif, which is
the second month, that he began to build the house of the LORD.

1. And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, the
place where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.

1. The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

1. Then said Solomon, The LORD hath said that he would dwell in the
thick darkness.

1. Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the
house of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.

1. Now it came to pass when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the
Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had builded the
wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though at that time
I had not set up the doors upon the gates;)

1. On that night could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bring
the book of records of the chronicles; and they were read before the
king.

1. But Job answered and said,

1. O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy
hot displeasure.

1. My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken
thy hand with a stranger,

1. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common
among men:

1. Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou fairest among women? whither
is thy beloved turned aside? that we may seek him with thee.

1. In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the LORD sitting upon
a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.

1. O ye
children of Benjamin, gather yourselves to flee out of the midst of
Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a sign of fire in
Bethhaccerem: for evil appeareth out of the north, and great
destruction.

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

1. It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom an hundred and twenty
princes, which should be over the whole kingdom;

1. Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he
will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up.

2. And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him
from Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose
name is called by the name of the LORD of hosts that dwelleth between
the cherubims.

2. And the house which king Solomon built for the LORD, the length
thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits,
and the height thereof thirty cubits.

2. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a
beam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. And he
answered, Go ye.

2. And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

2. But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place for
thy dwelling for ever.

2. And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the
province of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written:

2. That Sanballat and
Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of
the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.

2. And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and
Teresh, two of the king’s chamberlains, the keepers of the door, who
sought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.

2. Oh that my grief were throughly
weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together!

2. Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my
bones are vexed.

2. Thou art snared with the words of thy
mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.

2. A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and
honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he
desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger
eateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.

2. My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the beds of spices, to
feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies.

2. Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain
he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with
twain he did fly.

2. I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and delicate
woman.

2. Son of man, set
thy face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,

2. And over these
three presidents; of whom Daniel was first: that the princes might
give accounts unto them, and the king should have no damage.

2. After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise
us up, and we shall live in his sight.

3. And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of
the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons
of Abinadab, drave the new cart.

3. And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was
the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten
cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.

3. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants.
And he answered, I will go.

3. And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. The sons
also of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

3. And the king turned his face, and blessed the whole congregation
of Israel: and all the congregation of Israel stood.

3. In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a
decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house be
builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let the
foundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore
cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits;

3. And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work,
so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave
it, and come down to you?

3. And the king said, What honour and dignity hath been done to
Mordecai for this? Then said the king’s servants that ministered unto
him, There is nothing done for him.

3. For now
it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are
swallowed up.

3. My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long?

3. Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into
the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.

3. If a man beget an hundred children, and live many years, so that
the days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good,
and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is
better than he.

3. I am my beloved’s, and my beloved is mine: he feedeth among the
lilies.

3. And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the
LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.

3. The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall
pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed every one
in his place.

3. And say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD;
Thus saith the Lord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to the
rivers, and to the valleys; Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon
you, and I will destroy your high places.

3. Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes,
because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to set
him over the whole realm.

3. Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the LORD: his going
forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as the
rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.

4. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was at
Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.

4. And for the house he made windows of narrow lights.

4. So he went with them. And when they came to Jordan, they cut down
wood.

4. Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,

4. And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who hath with his
hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David,
saying,

4. With three rows
of great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses be
given out of the king’s house:

4. Yet they sent unto me four times after
this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.

4. And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come into
the outward court of the king’s house, to speak unto the king to hang
Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.

4. For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof
drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array
against me.

4. Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies’ sake.

4. Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.

4. For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his
name shall be covered with darkness.

4. Thou art beautiful, O my love, as Tirzah, comely as Jerusalem,
terrible as an army with banners.

4. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried,
and the house was filled with smoke.

4. Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe
unto us! for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening are
stretched out.

4. And your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be
broken: and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.

4. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against
Daniel concerning the kingdom; but they could find none occasion nor
fault; forasmuch as he was faithful, neither was there any error or
fault found in him.

4. O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do
unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the early
dew it goeth away.

5. And David and all the house of Israel played before the LORD on
all manner of instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, and on
psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on cymbals.

5. And against the wall of the house he built chambers round about,
against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of
the oracle: and he made chambers round about:

5. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water:
and he cried, and said, Alas, master! for it was borrowed.

5. And Abishua
begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi,

5. Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the
land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build
an house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to
be a ruler over my people Israel:

5. And also let the golden and silver
vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of
the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, be
restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem,
every one to his place, and place them in the house of God.

5. Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth
time with an open letter in his hand;

5. And the king’s servants said unto him, Behold, Haman standeth in
the court. And the king said, Let him come in.

5. Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over
his fodder?

5. For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who
shall give thee thanks?

5. Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a
bird from the hand of the fowler.

5. Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hath
more rest than the other.

5. Turn away thine eyes from me, for they have overcome me: thy hair
is as a flock of goats that appear from Gilead.

5. Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of
unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips:
for mine eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts.

5. Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces.

5. And I will lay the dead carcases of the children of Israel before
their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.

5. Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this
Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.

5. Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by
the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth
forth.

6. And when they came to Nachon’s threshingfloor, Uzzah put forth his
hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it.

6. The nethermost
chamber was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad,
and the third was seven cubits broad: for without in the wall of the
house he made narrowed rests round about, that the beams should not be
fastened in the walls of the house.

6. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he shewed him the
place.

And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron did
swim.

6. And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and
Zerahiah begat Meraioth,

6. But I have chosen Jerusalem,
that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my
people Israel.

6. Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai,
and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, be
ye far from thence:

6. Wherein was written, It is
reported among the heathen, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and the
Jews think to rebel: for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou
mayest be their king, according to these words.

6. So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done
unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour? Now Haman thought in
his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honour more than to
myself?

6. Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or
is there any taste in the white of an egg?

6. I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim;
I water my couch with my tears.

6. Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:

6. Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen
no good: do not all go to one place?

6. Thy teeth are as a flock of sheep which go up from the washing,
whereof every one beareth twins, and there is not one barren among
them.

6. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his
hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:

6. For thus hath the LORD of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast
a mount against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is
wholly oppression in the midst of her.

6. In all your dwellingplaces the cities shall be laid waste, and the
high places shall be desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and
made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your images
may be cut down, and your works may be abolished.

6. Then these presidents and princes assembled together to the king,
and said thus unto him, King Darius, live for ever.

6. For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God
more than burnt offerings.

7. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote
him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God.

7. And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made
ready before it was brought thither: so that there was neither hammer
nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in
building.

7. Therefore said he, Take it up to thee. And he put out his hand,
and took it.

7. Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat
Ahitub,

7. Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

7. Let the work of this house of God alone; let
the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house
of God in his place.

7. And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at
Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it be
reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and
let us take counsel together.

7. And Haman answered the king, For the man whom the king
delighteth to honour,

7. The things that my
soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat.

7. Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of
all mine enemies.

7. Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,

7. All the labour of man is for
his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.

7. As a piece of a pomegranate are thy temples within thy locks.

7. And he
laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and
thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.

7. As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her
wickedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me continually
is grief and wounds.

7. And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and ye shall know
that I am the LORD.

7. All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes,
the counsellors, and the captains, have consulted together to
establish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree, that whosoever
shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee,
O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.

7. But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they
dealt treacherously against me.

8. And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach upon
Uzzah: and he called the name of the place Perezuzzah to this day.

8. The door for the middle chamber was in the right side of the
house: and they went up with winding stairs into the middle chamber,
and out of the middle into the third.

8. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, and took counsel
with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.

8. And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,

8. But the LORD said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine
heart to build an house for my name, thou didst well in that it was in
thine heart:

8. Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of these
Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the king’s goods,
even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto
these men, that they be not hindered.

8. Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as
thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.

8. Let the royal apparel be brought which the
king useth to wear, and the horse that the king rideth upon, and the
crown royal which is set upon his head:

8. Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the
thing that I long for!

8. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath
heard the voice of my weeping.

8. Provideth her meat in
the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.

8. For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor,
that knoweth to walk before the living?

8. There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, and virgins
without number.

8. Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and
who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.

8. Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee;
lest I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited.

8. Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shall
escape the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered through
the countries.

8. Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it
be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which
altereth not.

8. Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, and is polluted with
blood.

9. And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and said, How shall the
ark of the LORD come to me?

9. So he built the house, and finished it; and covered the house with
beams and boards of cedar.

9. And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware
that thou pass not such a place; for thither the Syrians are come
down.

9. And
Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan,

9. Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; but
thy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the
house for my name.

9. And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams,
and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt,
wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which are
at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail:

9. For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened
from the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen
my hands.

9. And let this apparel and
horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king’s most noble
princes, that they may array the man withal whom the king delighteth
to honour, and bring him on horseback through the street of the city,
and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the
king delighteth to honour.

9. Even that it would please God to destroy
me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!

9. The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my
prayer.

9. How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of
thy sleep?

9. Better is the sight of
the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and
vexation of spirit.

9. My dove, my undefiled is but one; she is the only one of her
mother, she is the choice one of her that bare her. The daughters saw
her, and blessed her; yea, the queens and the concubines, and they
praised her.

9. And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but
understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.

9. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall throughly glean the
remnant of Israel as a vine: turn back thine hand as a grapegatherer
into the baskets.

9. And they that escape of you shall remember me among the nations
whither they shall be carried captives, because I am broken with their
whorish heart, which hath departed from me, and with their eyes, which
go a whoring after their idols: and they shall lothe themselves for
the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.

9. Wherefore king Darius signed the writing and the decree.

9. And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests
murder in the way by consent: for they commit lewdness.

10. So David would not remove the ark of
the LORD unto him into the city of David: but David carried it aside
into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

10. And then he built chambers against all the house, five cubits
high: and they rested on the house with timber of cedar.

10. And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God
told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor
twice.

10. And Johanan
begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest’s office in the
temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem:)

10. The LORD therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken:
for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and am set on the
throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

10. That
they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and
pray for the life of the king, and of his sons.

10. Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah
the son of Mehetabeel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet
together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the
doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the
night will they come to slay thee.

10. Then the king said to Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel and
the horse, as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew, that
sitteth at the king’s gate: let nothing fail of all that thou hast
spoken.

10. Then
should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let
him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.

10. Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return
and be ashamed suddenly.

10. Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little
folding of the hands to sleep:

10. That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it is
man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.

10. Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon,
clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners?

10. Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and
shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their
ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.

10. To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear?
behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold,
the word of the LORD is unto them a reproach; they have no delight in
it.

10. And they shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not said
in vain that I would do this evil unto them.

10. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into
his house; and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem,
he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave
thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.

10. I have seen an horrible thing in the house of Israel: there is
the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is defiled.

11. And the ark of the LORD continued in the house of Obededom the
Gittite three months: and the LORD blessed Obededom, and all his
household.

11. And the word of the LORD came to Solomon, saying,

11. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for
this thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them, Will ye
not shew me which of us is for the king of Israel?

11. And Azariah begat
Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,

11. And in it have I put the ark, wherein is the covenant of the
LORD, that he made with the children of Israel.

11. Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word,
let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be
hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this.

11. And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that,
being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not
go in.

11. Then took Haman the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai,
and brought him on horseback through the street of the city, and
proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the man whom the
king delighteth to honour.

11. What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end,
that I should prolong my life?

11. So shall thy poverty come as one
that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.

11. Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the
better?

11. I went
down into the garden of nuts to see the fruits of the valley, and to
see whether the vine flourished and the pomegranates budded.

11. Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be
wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be
utterly desolate,

11. Therefore I am full of the fury of the LORD; I am weary with
holding in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon the
assembly of young men together: for even the husband with the wife
shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days.

11. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Smite with thine hand, and stamp with
thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of
Israel! for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the
pestilence.

11. Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making
supplication before his God.

11. Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned
the captivity of my people.

12. And it was told king David, saying, The LORD hath blessed the
house of Obededom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the
ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house
of Obededom into the city of David with gladness.

12. Concerning
this house which thou art in building, if thou wilt walk in my
statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to
walk in them; then will I perform my word with thee, which I spake
unto David thy father:

12. And one of
his servants said, None, my lord, O king: but Elisha, the prophet that
is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest
in thy bedchamber.

12. And Ahitub begat Zadok, and
Zadok begat Shallum,

12. And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all
the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands:

12. And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all
kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy
this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree;
let it be done with speed.

12. And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent him; but that he
pronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat had
hired him.

12. And Mordecai came again to the king’s gate. But Haman hasted to
his house mourning, and having his head covered.

12. Is my strength the strength of
stones? or is my flesh of brass?

12. A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth.

12. For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all
the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can
tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?

12. Or ever I was aware, my soul made me like the chariots of
Amminadib.

12. And the LORD have removed men far away, and
there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.

12. And their houses shall be turned unto others, with their fields
and wives together: for I will stretch out my hand upon the
inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD.

12. He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that is
near shall fall by the sword; and he that remaineth and is besieged
shall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.

12. Then they came near, and spake before the king concerning the
king’s decree; Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that
shall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save of
thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered
and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and
Persians, which altereth not.

13. And it was so, that when they that bare the ark of the LORD had
gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings.

13. And I will dwell among the children of
Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.

13. And he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch
him.

And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.

13. And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat
Azariah,

13. For
Solomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long, and five
cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of
the court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees
before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands
toward heaven.

13. Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and
their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so
they did speedily.

13. Therefore was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and
sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they
might reproach me.

13. And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing
that had befallen him. Then said his wise men and Zeresh his wife unto
him, If Mordecai be of the seed of the Jews, before whom thou hast
begun to fall, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt surely
fall before him.

13. Is not my help in me? and is
wisdom driven quite from me?

13. He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth
with his fingers;

13. Return, return, O Shulamite; return, return, that we may look
upon thee. What will ye see in the Shulamite? As it were the company
of two armies.

13. But yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall be
eaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them, when
they cast their leaves: so the holy seed shall be the substance
thereof.

13. For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every
one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the
priest every one dealeth falsely.

13. Then shall ye know that I am the LORD, when their slain men shall
be among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill,
in all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and
under every thick oak, the place where they did offer sweet savour to
all their idols.

13. Then answered they and said before the king, That Daniel, which
is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O
king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition
three times a day.

14. And David danced before the LORD with all his might; and David
was girded with a linen ephod.

14. So Solomon built the house, and finished it.

14. Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host:
and they came by night, and compassed the city about.

14. And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak,

14. And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee in the
heaven, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercy
unto thy servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts:

14. And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through
the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo.
And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the
God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius,
and Artaxerxes king of Persia.

14. My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these
their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the
prophets, that would have put me in fear.

14. And while they were yet talking with him, came the king’s
chamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman unto the banquet that Esther
had prepared.

14. To him that is afflicted pity
should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the
Almighty.

14. Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth
mischief continually; he soweth discord.

14. They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of my people
slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.

14. So will I stretch out my hand upon them, and make the land
desolate, yea, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in
all their habitations: and they shall know that I am the LORD.

14. Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased
with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he
laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him.

15. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the
LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.

15. And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar,
both the floor of the house, and the walls of the ceiling: and he
covered them on the inside with wood, and covered the floor of the
house with planks of fir.

15. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone
forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and
chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we
do?

15. And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carried away
Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

15. Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou
hast promised him; and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it
with thine hand, as it is this day.

15. And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar,
which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.

15. So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month
Elul, in fifty and two days.

15. My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream
of brooks they pass away;

15. Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be
broken without remedy.

15. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they
were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they
shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them they
shall be cast down, saith the LORD.

15. Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king,
Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That no
decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed.

16. And as the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal
Saul’s daughter looked through a window, and saw king David leaping
and dancing before the LORD; and she despised him in her heart.

16. And he built twenty cubits on the sides of the house, both the
floor and the walls with boards of cedar: he even built them for it
within, even for the oracle, even for the most holy place.

16. And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are more
than they that be with them.

16. The sons of Levi; Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.

16. Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David
my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not
fail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; yet so
that thy children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as thou
hast walked before me.

16. And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the
rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this
house of God with joy.

16. And it came to pass, that when all our enemies heard thereof, and
all the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were much
cast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this work was
wrought of our God.

16. Which are blackish by reason of the
ice, and wherein the snow is hid:

16. These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an
abomination unto him:

16. Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for
the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall
find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein.

16. Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him
into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Thy
God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee.

17. And they brought in the ark of the LORD, and set it in his place,
in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and
David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.

17. And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits
long.

17. And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes,
that he may see. And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man; and he
saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire
round about Elisha.

17. And these be the names of the sons of Gershom; Libni, and Shimei.

17. Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which
thou hast spoken unto thy servant David.

17. And offered at the dedication of this house of God an hundred
bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering
for all Israel, twelve he goats, according to the number of the tribes
of Israel.

17. Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto
Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them.

17. What time they wax warm, they
vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.

17. A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands
that shed innocent blood,

17. Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the
trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken.

17. And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and
the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his
lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.

18. And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings
and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of
hosts.

18. And the cedar of the house within was carved with knops and open
flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.

18. And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the LORD, and
said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote
them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.

18. And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and
Uzziel.

18. But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold,
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less
this house which I have built!

18. And they set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in
their courses, for the service of God, which is at Jerusalem; as it is
written in the book of Moses.

18. For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the
son in law of Shechaniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had
taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah.

18. The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and
perish.

18. An heart that deviseth wicked
imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,

18. Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is
among them.

18. Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting:
neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep
went from him.

19. And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude
of Israel, as well to the women as men, to every one a cake of bread,
and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine. So all the people
departed every one to his house.

19. And the oracle he prepared in the house within, to set there the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

19. And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this
the city: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. But
he led them to Samaria.

19. The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are the families
of the Levites according to their fathers.

19. Have respect therefore to the
prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to
hearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy servant prayeth before
thee:

19. And the children of the captivity kept the passover upon the
fourteenth day of the first month.

19. Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words
to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

19. The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for
them.

19. A false
witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.

19. Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even
the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my
words, nor to my law, but rejected it.

19. Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste
unto the den of lions.

20. Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the
daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was
the king of Israel to day, who uncovered himself to day in the eyes of
the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly
uncovereth himself!

20. And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, and
twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height thereof: and
he overlaid it with pure gold; and so covered the altar which was of
cedar.

20. And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, that
Elisha said, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. And
the LORD opened their eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were in
the midst of Samaria.

20. Of Gershom; Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,

20. That thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night,
upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy name
there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth toward
this place.

20. For the priests and the Levites were purified together, all of
them were pure, and killed the passover for all the children of the
captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves.

20. They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither,
and were ashamed.

20. My son, keep thy father’s commandment, and forsake not the law of
thy mother:

20. To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and the
sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings are not
acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me.

20. And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice
unto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant
of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to
deliver thee from the lions?

21. And David said unto Michal, It was before
the LORD, which chose me before thy father, and before all his house,
to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel:
therefore will I play before the LORD.

21. So Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold: and he made
a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle; and he overlaid
it with gold.

21. And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My
father, shall I smite them? shall I smite them?

21. Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.

21. Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, and of
thy people Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thou
from thy dwelling place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest,
forgive.

21. And the children of Israel, which were come again out of
captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the
filthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the LORD God of Israel,
did eat,

21. For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid.

21. Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them
about thy neck.

21. Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocks
before this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall fall
upon them; the neighbour and his friend shall perish.

21. Then said Daniel unto the king, O
king, live for ever.

22. And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine
own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them
shall I be had in honour.

22. And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until he had finished
all the house: also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid
with gold.

22. And he answered,
Thou shalt not smite them: wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast
taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? set bread and water
before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.

22. The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his
son,

22. If a man sin against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him
to make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house;

22. And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with
joy: for the LORD had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the
king of Assyria unto them, to strengthen their hands in the work of
the house of God, the God of Israel.

22. Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your
substance?

22. When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall
keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.

22. Thus saith the LORD, Behold, a people cometh from the north
country, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of the
earth.

22. My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions’ mouths, that
they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in
me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt.

23. Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day
of her death.

23. And within the oracle he made two cherubims of olive tree, each
ten cubits high.

23. And he prepared great provision for them: and when they had eaten
and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the
bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel.

23. Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,

23. Then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, by
requiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head; and
by justifying the righteous, by giving him according to his
righteousness.

23. Or, Deliver me from the enemy’s hand? or, Redeem me
from the hand of the mighty?

23. For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs
of instruction are the way of life:

23. They shall lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no
mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses,
set in array as men for war against thee, O daughter of Zion.

23. Then was the king exceedingly glad for him, and commanded that
they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out
of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he
believed in his God.

24. And five cubits was the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits
the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost part of the one wing
unto the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.

24. And it came to pass after this, that Benhadad king of Syria
gathered all his host, and went up, and besieged Samaria.

24. Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

24. And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before the enemy,
because they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confess
thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;

24. Teach me, and I will hold my
tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred.

24. To keep thee from the evil
woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.

24. We have heard the fame thereof: our hands wax feeble: anguish
hath taken hold of us, and pain, as of a woman in travail.

24. And the king commanded, and they brought those men which had
accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their
children, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and
brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of the
den.

25. And the other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubims were of
one measure and one size.

25. And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behold, they
besieged it, until an ass’s head was sold for fourscore pieces of
silver, and the fourth part of a cab of dove’s dung for five pieces of
silver.

25. And the sons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth.

25. Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sin of thy
people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to
them and to their fathers.

25. How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove?

25. Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take
thee with her eyelids.

25. Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword
of the enemy and fear is on every side.

25. Then king Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages,
that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.

26. The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the
other cherub.

26. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there
cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.

26. As for Elkanah: the sons of Elkanah; Zophai his son, and Nahath
his son,

26. When the heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they
have sinned against thee; yet if they pray toward this place, and
confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict
them;

26. Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is
desperate, which are as wind?

26. For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of
bread: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life.

26. O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallow
thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitter
lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us.

26. I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble
and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, and
stedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed,
and his dominion shall be even unto the end.

27. And he set the cherubims within the inner house: and they
stretched forth the wings of the cherubims, so that the wing of the
one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the
other wall; and their wings touched one another in the midst of the
house.

27. And he said, If the LORD do not help thee, whence shall I help
thee? out of the barnfloor, or out of the winepress?

27. Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.

27. Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy
servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them the
good way, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which
thou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance.

27. Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless,
and ye dig a pit for your friend.

27. Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?

27. I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my people, that
thou mayest know and try their way.

27. He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders in
heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the
lions.

28. And he overlaid the cherubims with gold.

28. And the
king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman
said unto me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to day, and we will
eat my son to morrow.

28. And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah.

28. If there be dearth in the land, if there be pestilence, if there
be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemies
besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore or
whatsoever sickness there be:

28. Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto
you if I lie.

28. Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?

28. They are all grievous revolters, walking with slanders: they are
brass and iron; they are all corrupters.

28. So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign
of Cyrus the Persian.

29. And he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved
figures of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, within and
without.

29. So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on the
next day, Give thy son, that we may eat him: and she hath hid her son.

29. The sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza
his son,

29. Then what prayer or what
supplication soever shall be made of any man, or of all thy people
Israel, when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief, and
shall spread forth his hands in this house:

29. Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my
righteousness is in it.

29. So
he that goeth in to his neighbour’s wife; whosoever toucheth her shall
not be innocent.

29. The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed of the fire; the
founder melteth in vain: for the wicked are not plucked away.

30. And the floors of the house he overlaid with gold, within and
without.

30. And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman,
that he rent his clothes; and he passed by upon the wall, and the
people looked, and, behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh.

30. Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.

30. Then hear thou from
heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every man
according unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou only
knowest the hearts of the children of men:)

30. Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse
things?

30. Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when
he is hungry;

30. Reprobate silver shall men call them, because the LORD hath
rejected them.

31. And for the entering of the oracle he made doors of olive tree:
the lintel and side posts were a fifth part of the wall.

31. Then he said, God do so and more also to me, if the head of
Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.

31. And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the
house of the LORD, after that the ark had rest.

31. That they may fear
thee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thou
gavest unto our fathers.

31. But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he
shall give all the substance of his house.

32. The two doors also were of olive tree; and he carved upon them
carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, and overlaid
them with gold, and spread gold upon the cherubims, and upon the palm
trees.

32. But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him; and the
king sent a man from before him: but ere the messenger came to him, he
said to the elders, See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent to
take away mine head? look, when the messenger cometh, shut the door,
and hold him fast at the door: is not the sound of his master’s feet
behind him?

32. And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle
of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of
the LORD in Jerusalem: and then they waited on their office according
to their order.

32. Moreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people
Israel, but is come from a far country for thy great name’s sake, and
thy mighty hand, and thy stretched out arm; if they come and pray in
this house;

32. But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding:
he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul.

33. So also made he for the door of the temple posts of olive tree, a
fourth part of the wall.

33. And while he yet talked with them, behold, the
messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of the
LORD; what should I wait for the LORD any longer?

33. And these are they that waited with their children. Of the sons
of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of
Shemuel,

33. Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy
dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to
thee for; that all people of the earth may know thy name, and fear
thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which I
have built is called by thy name.

33. A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be
wiped away.

34. And the two doors were of fir tree: the two leaves of the one
door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.

34. The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of
Eliel, the son of Toah,

34. If thy people go out to war against their enemies by the way that
thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city which
thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name;

34. For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in
the day of vengeance.

35. And he carved thereon cherubims and palm trees and open flowers:
and covered them with gold fitted upon the carved work.

35. The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the
son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,

35. Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,
and maintain their cause.

35. He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content,
though thou givest many gifts.

36. And he built the inner court with three rows of hewed stone, and
a row of cedar beams.

36. The son of Elkanah, the son of
Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,

36. If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which sinneth
not,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their
enemies, and they carry them away captives unto a land far off or
near;

37. In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of the LORD
laid, in the month Zif:

37. The son of
Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,

37. Yet if they bethink themselves in the land whither they are
carried captive, and turn and pray unto thee in the land of their
captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, and have dealt
wickedly;

38. And in the eleventh year, in the month
Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished throughout all
the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he
seven years in building it.

38. The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of
Israel.

38. If they return to thee with all their heart and with
all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have
carried them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest
unto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and
toward the house which I have built for thy name:

39. And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph
the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea,

39. Then hear thou
from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and their
supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people which
have sinned against thee.

40. The son of Michael, the
son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,

40. Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let
thine ears be attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.

41. The son of Ethni, the son
of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,

41. Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place, thou,
and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothed
with salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.

42. The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah,
the son of Shimei,

42. O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: remember
the mercies of David thy servant.

43. The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son
of Levi.

44. And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the left hand:
Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,

45. The
son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,

46. The son
of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer,

47. The son of Mahli,
the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.

48. Their brethren also the Levites were appointed unto all manner of
service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

49. But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burnt
offering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the
work of the place most holy, and to make an atonement for Israel,
according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.

50. And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas his
son, Abishua his son,

51. Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his
son,

52. Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,

53. Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.

54. Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles in
their coasts, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites:
for theirs was the lot.

55. And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs
thereof round about it.

56. But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave
to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

57. And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely,
Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with her suburbs, and Jattir,
and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs,

58. And Hilen with her suburbs,
Debir with her suburbs,

59. And Ashan with her suburbs, and
Bethshemesh with her suburbs:

60. And out of the tribe of Benjamin;
Geba with her suburbs, and Alemeth with her suburbs, and Anathoth with
her suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen
cities.

61. And unto the sons of Kohath, which were left of the family of
that tribe, were cities given out of the half tribe, namely, out of
the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.

62. And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families out of the
tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe
of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen
cities.

63. Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout their
families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and
out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

64. And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with
their suburbs.

65. And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah,
and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe
of the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by their
names.

66. And the residue of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities
of their coasts out of the tribe of Ephraim.

67. And they gave unto them, of the cities of refuge, Shechem in
mount Ephraim with her suburbs; they gave also Gezer with her suburbs,

68. And Jokmeam with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs,

69. And Aijalon with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon with her suburbs:

70. And out of the half tribe of Manasseh; Aner with her suburbs, and
Bileam with her suburbs, for the family of the remnant of the sons of
Kohath.

71. Unto the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the half
tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, and Ashtaroth
with her suburbs:

72. And out of the tribe of Issachar; Kedesh with
her suburbs, Daberath with her suburbs,

73. And Ramoth with her
suburbs, and Anem with her suburbs:

74. And out of the tribe of
Asher; Mashal with her suburbs, and Abdon with her suburbs,

75. And
Hukok with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbs:

76. And out of
the tribe of Naphtali; Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, and Hammon
with her suburbs, and Kirjathaim with her suburbs.

77. Unto the rest of the children of Merari were given out of the
tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with her suburbs, Tabor with her suburbs:

78. And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of
Jordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the
wilderness with her suburbs, and Jahzah with her suburbs,

79. Kedemoth also with her suburbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs:

80. And out of the tribe of Gad; Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs, and
Mahanaim with her suburbs,

81. And Heshbon with her suburbs, and
Jazer with her suburbs.