1. And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD
had given him rest round about from all his enemies;

1. But Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he
finished all his house.

1. Then Elisha
said, Hear ye the word of the LORD; Thus saith the LORD, To morrow
about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel,
and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.

1. Now the sons of Issachar were, Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and
Shimrom, four.

1. Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down
from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and
the glory of the LORD filled the house.

1. Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia,
Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah,

1. Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the
doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,

1. So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen.

1. Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not
his days also like the days of an hireling?

1. O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them
that persecute me, and deliver me:

1. My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.

1. A good name is
better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of
one’s birth.

1. How beautiful are thy feet with shoes, O prince’s daughter! the
joints of thy thighs are like jewels, the work of the hands of a
cunning workman.

1. And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son
of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the
son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war
against it, but could not prevail against it.

1. The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

1. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

1. In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream
and visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream, and
told the sum of the matters.

1. When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was
discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood;
and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.

2. That the king
said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar,
but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.

2. He built also the house of the forest of Lebanon; the length
thereof was an hundred cubits, and the breadth thereof fifty cubits,
and the height thereof thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars,
with cedar beams upon the pillars.

2. Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God,
and said, Behold, if the LORD would make windows in heaven, might this
thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but
shalt not eat thereof.

2. And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai,
and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father’s house, to wit, of
Tola: they were valiant men of might in their generations; whose
number was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six
hundred.

2. And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD,
because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD’s house.

2. The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,

2. That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the
palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared
God above many.

2. And the king said again unto Esther on the second day at the
banquet of wine, What is thy petition, queen Esther? and it shall be
granted thee: and what is thy request? and it shall be performed, even
to the half of the kingdom.

2. As a servant
earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the
reward of his work:

2. Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while
there is none to deliver.

2. Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine
eye.

2. It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the
house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will
lay it to his heart.

2. Thy navel is like a round goblet, which wanteth not liquor: thy
belly is like an heap of wheat set about with lilies.

2. And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederate
with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as
the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.

2. Stand in
the gate of the LORD’s house, and proclaim there this word, and say,
Hear the word of the LORD, all ye of Judah, that enter in at these
gates to worship the LORD.

2. Also, thou
son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD unto the land of Israel; An end,
the end is come upon the four corners of the land.

2. Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and, behold,
the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea.

2. And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their
wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are
before my face.

3. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart;
for the LORD is with thee.

3. And it was covered with cedar above upon the beams, that lay on
forty five pillars, fifteen in a row.

3. And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate:
and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die?

3. And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael,
and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.

3. And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down,
and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves with
their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, and
praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for
ever.

3. The son
of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,

3. And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened
until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the
doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of
Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against
his house.

3. Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favour in
thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me
at my petition, and my people at my request:

3. So am I made to possess months of vanity, and
wearisome nights are appointed to me.

3. O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my
hands;

3. Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine
heart.

3. Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the
countenance the heart is made better.

3. Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins.

3. Then said the LORD unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou,
and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool
in the highway of the fuller’s field;

3. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your ways
and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place.

3. Now is the end come upon thee, and I will send mine anger upon
thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense
upon thee all thine abominations.

3. And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from
another.

3. They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes
with their lies.

4. And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came
unto Nathan, saying,

4. And there were windows in three rows, and light was against light
in three ranks.

4. If we
say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and
we shall die there: and if we sit still here, we die also. Now
therefore come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they
save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die.

4. And with them, by their generations, after the house of their
fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, six and thirty thousand men:
for they had many wives and sons.

4. Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the
LORD.

4. The son of
Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,

4. Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein,
and the houses were not builded.

4. For we are sold, I
and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we
had been sold for bondmen and bondwomen, I had held my tongue,
although the enemy could not countervail the king’s damage.

4. When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone?
and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.

4. If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea,
I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

4. Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy
kinswoman:

4. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart
of fools is in the house of mirth.

4. Thy neck is as a tower of ivory; thine eyes like the fishpools in
Heshbon, by the gate of Bathrabbim: thy nose is as the tower of
Lebanon which looketh toward Damascus.

4. And say unto him, Take heed,
and be quiet; fear not, neither be fainthearted for the two tails of
these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria,
and of the son of Remaliah.

4. Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the LORD, The
temple of the LORD, The temple of the LORD, are these.

4. And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity: but I
will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in
the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

4. The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s wings: I beheld till
the wings thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth,
and made stand upon the feet as a man, and a man’s heart was given to
it.

4. They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who
ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be
leavened.

5. Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith the
LORD, Shalt thou build me an house for me to dwell in?

5. And all the doors and posts were square, with the windows: and
light was against light in three ranks.

5. And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of the
Syrians: and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of
Syria, behold, there was no man there.

5. And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiant
men of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies fourscore and seven
thousand.

5. And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand
oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and all
the people dedicated the house of God.

5. The son of Abishua,
the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief
priest:

5. And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and
the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy.
And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the
first, and found written therein,

5. Then the king Ahasuerus answered and said unto Esther the queen,
Who is he, and where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?

5. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is
broken, and become loathsome.

5. Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread
down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

5. That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from
the stranger which flattereth with her words.

5. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to
hear the song of fools.

5. Thine head upon thee is like Carmel, and the hair of thine head
like purple; the king is held in the galleries.

5. Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil
counsel against thee, saying,

5. For if ye throughly amend your ways and your doings; if ye
throughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbour;

5. Thus saith the Lord GOD; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come.

5. And behold another beast, a second, like to a bear, and it raised
up itself on one side, and it had three ribs in the mouth of it
between the teeth of it: and they said thus unto it, Arise, devour
much flesh.

5. In the day of our king the princes have made him sick with bottles
of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.

6. Whereas I
have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought up the
children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in
a tent and in a tabernacle.

6. And he made a porch of pillars; the length thereof was fifty
cubits, and the breadth thereof thirty cubits: and the porch was
before them: and the other pillars and the thick beam were before
them.

6. For the LORD had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of
chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host: and
they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us
the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come
upon us.

6. The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.

6. And the priests waited on their offices: the Levites also with
instruments of musick of the LORD, which David the king had made to
praise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when David
praised by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets before
them, and all Israel stood.

6. This Ezra went up from Babylon; and he was a ready scribe
in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given: and the
king granted him all his request, according to the hand of the LORD
his God upon him.

6. These are the children of the
province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been
carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried
away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his
city;

6. And Esther said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman.
Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.

6. My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and are spent without
hope.

6. Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast
commanded.

6. For at the window of my house I looked through my casement,

6. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of
the fool: this also is vanity.

6. How fair and how pleasant art thou, O love, for delights!

6. Let us go up against Judah, and vex
it, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in the
midst of it, even the son of Tabeal:

6. If ye
oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and shed not
innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your
hurt:

6. An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for thee; behold, it
is come.

6. After this I beheld, and lo another, like a leopard, which had
upon the back of it four wings of a fowl; the beast had also four
heads; and dominion was given to it.

6. For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie
in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth
as a flaming fire.

7. In all the places wherein I have walked with all the children of
Israel spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I
commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an
house of cedar?

7. Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge, even the
porch of judgment: and it was covered with cedar from one side of the
floor to the other.

7. Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their
tents, and their horses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, and
fled for their life.

7. And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth,
and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of
valour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousand
and thirty and four.

7. Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before
the house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and the
fat of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon had
made was not able to receive the burnt offerings, and the meat
offerings, and the fat.

7. And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the
priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the
Nethinims, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.

7. Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah,
Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum,
Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was
this;

7. And the king arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath went
into the palace garden: and Haman stood up to make request for his
life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determined
against him by the king.

7. O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good.

7. So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for
their sakes therefore return thou on high.

7. And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a
young man void of understanding,

7. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the
heart.

7. This thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters
of grapes.

7. Thus saith the Lord GOD, It
shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.

7. Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land
that I gave to your fathers, for ever and ever.

7. The morning is come unto thee, O thou that dwellest in the land:
the time is come, the day of trouble is near, and not the sounding
again of the mountains.

7. After this I saw in the night visions, and behold a fourth beast,
dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron
teeth: it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with
the feet of it: and it was diverse from all the beasts that were
before it; and it had ten horns.

7. They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all
their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.

8. Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant
David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote,
from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel:

8. And his house where he dwelt had another court within the porch,
which was of the like work. Solomon made also an house for Pharaoh’s
daughter, whom he had taken to wife, like unto this porch.

8. And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they
went into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver,
and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and came again, and
entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hid
it.

8. And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and
Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and
Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher.

8. Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all
Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in of
Hamath unto the river of Egypt.

8. And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the
seventh year of the king.

8. The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and
two.

8. Then the king returned out of the palace garden into the place of
the banquet of wine; and Haman was fallen upon the bed whereon Esther
was. Then said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in the
house? As the word went out of the king’s mouth, they covered Haman’s
face.

8. The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes
are upon me, and I am not.

8. The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my
righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.

8. Passing through the street near
her corner; and he went the way to her house,

8. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the
patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.

8. I said, I will go up to the palm tree, I will take hold of the
boughs thereof: now also thy breasts shall be as clusters of the vine,
and the smell of thy nose like apples;

8. For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is
Rezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be broken,
that it be not a people.

8. Behold, ye trust in lying words, that cannot profit.

8. Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mine
anger upon thee: and I will judge thee according to thy ways, and will
recompense thee for all thine abominations.

8. I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them
another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns
plucked up by the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the
eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things.

8. Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake
not turned.

9. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all
thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like
unto the name of the great men that are in the earth.

9. All these were of costly stones, according to the measures of
hewed stones, sawed with saws, within and without, even from the
foundation unto the coping, and so on the outside toward the great
court.

9. Then they said one to another, We do not well: this day is a day
of good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry till the morning
light, some mischief will come upon us: now therefore come, that we
may go and tell the king’s household.

9. And the number of them, after their genealogy by their
generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of
valour, was twenty thousand and two hundred.

9. And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept
the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.

9. For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up from
Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem,
according to the good hand of his God upon him.

9. The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

9. And Harbonah, one of the chamberlains, said before the king,
Behold also, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman had made for
Mordecai, who had spoken good for the king, standeth in the house of
Haman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.

9. As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down
to the grave shall come up no more.

9. Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish
the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

9. In the twilight, in
the evening, in the black and dark night:

9. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the
bosom of fools.

9. And the roof of thy mouth
like the best wine for my beloved, that goeth down sweetly, causing
the lips of those that are asleep to speak.

9. And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is
Remaliah’s son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be
established.

9. Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and
burn incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not;

9. And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will
recompense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations that are
in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am the LORD that
smiteth.

9. I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days
did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head
like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his
wheels as burning fire.

9. Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea,
gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.

10. Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will
plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no
more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more,
as beforetime,

10. And the foundation was of costly stones, even great stones,
stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.

10. So they came and called unto the porter of the city: and they
told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold,
there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, and
asses tied, and the tents as they were.

10. The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush,
and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and
Ahishahar.

10. And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent
the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the
goodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and to
Israel his people.

10. For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and
to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.

10. The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.

10. So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for
Mordecai. Then was the king’s wrath pacified.

10. He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place
know him any more.

10. My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.

10. And, behold, there met
him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.

10. Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better
than these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concerning this.

10. I am my beloved’s, and his desire is toward me.

10. Moreover the LORD spake again unto Ahaz, saying,

10. And come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my
name, and say, We are delivered to do all these abominations?

10. Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth;
the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded.

10. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand
stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.

10. And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not
return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this.

11. And as since the time that I commanded judges to
be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine
enemies. Also the LORD telleth thee that he will make thee an house.

11. And above were costly stones, after the measures of hewed stones,
and cedars.

11. And he called the porters; and they told it to the king’s house
within.

11. All these the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers,
mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred
soldiers, fit to go out for war and battle.

11. Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD, and the king’s
house: and all that came into Solomon’s heart to make in the house of
the LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

11. Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave
unto Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe of the words of the
commandments of the LORD, and of his statutes to Israel.

11. The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab,
two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.

11. Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the
anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.

11. God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every
day.

11. (She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house:

11. Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to
them that see the sun.

11. Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the field; let us lodge in
the villages.

11. Ask thee a
sign of the LORD thy God; ask it either in the depth, or in the height
above.

11. Is
this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in
your eyes? Behold, even I have seen it, saith the LORD.

11. Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none of them shall
remain, nor of their multitude, nor of any of theirs: neither shall
there be wailing for them.

11. I beheld then because of the voice of the great words which the
horn spake: I beheld even till the beast was slain, and his body
destroyed, and given to the burning flame.

11. Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to
Egypt, they go to Assyria.

12. And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy
fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of
thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.

12. And the great court round about was with three rows of hewed
stones, and a row of cedar beams, both for the inner court of the
house of the LORD, and for the porch of the house.

12. And the king arose in the night, and said unto his servants, I
will now shew you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we
be hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves
in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall catch
them alive, and get into the city.

12. Shuppim also, and Huppim, the children of Ir, and Hushim, the
sons of Aher.

12. And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I
have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for an
house of sacrifice.

12. Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of the
law of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time.

12. The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

12. Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me?

12. If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and
made it ready.

12. Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every
corner.)

12. For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the
excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have
it.

12. Let us get up early to the vineyards; let us see if the vine
flourish, whether the tender grape appear, and the pomegranates bud
forth: there will I give thee my loves.

12. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the LORD.

12. But go ye now unto my place which was in Shiloh, where I set my
name at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my
people Israel.

12. The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer
rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitude
thereof.

12. As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion
taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.

12. When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring
them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their
congregation hath heard.

13. He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the
throne of his kingdom for ever.

13. And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.

13. And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray
thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city,
(behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it:
behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites
that are consumed:) and let us send and see.

13. The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum,
the sons of Bilhah.

13. If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command the
locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;

13. I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and of
his priests and Levites, in my realm, which are minded of their own
freewill to go up to Jerusalem, go with thee.

13. The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five.

13. When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my
complaints;

13. He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he
ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.

13. So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent
face said unto him,

13. Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which
he hath made crooked?

13. The mandrakes give a smell, and at our gates are all manner of
pleasant fruits, new and old, which I have laid up for thee, O my
beloved.

13. And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is it a small thing
for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?

13. And now, because ye have done all these works, saith the LORD,
and I spake unto you, rising up early and speaking, but ye heard not;
and I called you, but ye answered not;

13. For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although
they were yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude
thereof, which shall not return; neither shall any strengthen himself
in the iniquity of his life.

13. I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man
came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and
they brought him near before him.

13. Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them!
because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed
them, yet they have spoken lies against me.

14. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit
iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes
of the children of men:

14. He was a widow’s son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was
a man of Tyre, a worker in brass: and he was filled with wisdom, and
understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to
king Solomon, and wrought all his work.

14. They took therefore two chariot horses; and the king sent after
the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.

14. The sons of Manasseh; Ashriel, whom she bare: (but his concubine
the Aramitess bare Machir the father of Gilead:

14. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble
themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked
ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and
will heal their land.

14. Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king, and of his seven
counsellors, to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to
the law of thy God which is in thine hand;

14. The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

14. Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me
through visions:

14. Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.

14. I have peace offerings with me; this day have
I payed my vows.

14. In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in
the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against
the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.

14. Therefore
the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall
conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.

14. Therefore will I do unto
this house, which is called by my name, wherein ye trust, and unto the
place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I have done to
Shiloh.

14. They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none
goeth to the battle: for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.

14. And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that
all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is
an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom
that which shall not be destroyed.

14. And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they
howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine,
and they rebel against me.

15. But my mercy shall not depart away from
him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.

15. For he cast two pillars of brass, of eighteen cubits high apiece:
and a line of twelve cubits did compass either of them about.

15. And they went after them unto Jordan: and, lo, all the way was
full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their
haste. And the messengers returned, and told the king.

15. And Machir took
to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister’s name was
Maachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad
had daughters.

15. Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent unto the prayer
that is made in this place.

15. And to carry the
silver and gold, which the king and his counsellors have freely
offered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem,

15. The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight.

15. So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death
rather than my life.

15. He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which
he made.

15. Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face,
and I have found thee.

15. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just
man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man
that prolongeth his life in his wickedness.

15. Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the
evil, and choose the good.

15. And I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your
brethren, even the whole seed of Ephraim.

15. The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within:
he that is in the field shall die with the sword; and he that is in
the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.

15. I Daniel was grieved in my spirit in the midst of my body, and
the visions of my head troubled me.

15. Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do they
imagine mischief against me.

16. And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever
before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever.

16. And he made two chapiters of molten brass, to set upon the tops
of the pillars: the height of the one chapiter was five cubits, and
the height of the other chapiter was five cubits:

16. And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. So
a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of
barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.

16. And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called his
name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons
were Ulam and Rakem.

16. For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may
be there for ever: and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there
perpetually.

16. And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the province
of Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people, and of the
priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in
Jerusalem:

16. The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight.

16. I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days
are vanity.

16. His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent
dealing shall come down upon his own pate.

16. I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved
works, with fine linen of Egypt.

16. Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why
shouldest thou destroy thyself?

16. For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choose
the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her
kings.

16. Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up cry nor
prayer for them, neither make intercession to me: for I will not hear
thee.

16. But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on the
mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every one
for his iniquity.

16. I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the
truth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the interpretation
of the things.

16. They return, but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful
bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their
tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.

17. According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

17. And nets of
checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the chapiters which were
upon the top of the pillars; seven for the one chapiter, and seven for
the other chapiter.

17. And the king appointed the lord on whose hand he leaned to have
the charge of the gate: and the people trode upon him in the gate, and
he died, as the man of God had said, who spake when the king came down
to him.

17. And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the
son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.

17. And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father
walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shalt
observe my statutes and my judgments;

17. That thou mayest buy speedily with this money
bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meat offerings and their drink
offerings, and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God
which is in Jerusalem.

17. The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two.

17. What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou
shouldest set thine heart upon him?

17. I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will
sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.

17. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

17. Be not over much wicked,
neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?

17. The LORD shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy
father’s house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim
departed from Judah; even the king of Assyria.

17. Seest thou not what they do in the cities of Judah and in the
streets of Jerusalem?

17. All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.

17. These great beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shall
arise out of the earth.

18. Then went king David in, and sat before the LORD, and he said,
Who am I, O Lord GOD? and what is my house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto?

18. And he made the pillars, and two rows round about upon the one
network, to cover the chapiters that were upon the top, with
pomegranates: and so did he for the other chapiter.

18. And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king,
saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine
flour for a shekel, shall be to morrow about this time in the gate of
Samaria:

18. And his sister Hammoleketh bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.

18. Then will I stablish the
throne of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thy
father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.

18. And whatsoever shall seem good to thee, and to thy brethren, to
do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do after the will of
your God.

18. The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven.

18. And that thou shouldest
visit him every morning, and try him every moment?

18. Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us
solace ourselves with loves.

18. It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from this
withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of
them all.

18. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall hiss
for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and
for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.

18. The children gather wood, and the fathers
kindle the fire, and the women knead their dough, to make cakes to the
queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods, that
they may provoke me to anger.

18. They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall
cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all
their heads.

18. But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and
possess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever.

19. And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord
GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant’s house for a great
while to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD?

19. And the chapiters that were upon the top of the pillars were of
lily work in the porch, four cubits.

19. And that lord answered the man of God, and said, Now,
behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, might such a thing
be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt
not eat thereof.

19. And the sons of Shemidah were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and
Aniam.

19. But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments,
which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and
worship them;

19. The vessels also that are given thee for the service of the house
of thy God, those deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem.

19. The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven.

19. How long wilt
thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my
spittle?

19. For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey:

19. Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are
in the city.

19. And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate
valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon
all bushes.

19. Do they provoke me to anger? saith the LORD: do they not provoke
themselves to the confusion of their own faces?

19. They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall
be removed: their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver
them in the day of the wrath of the LORD: they shall not satisfy their
souls, neither fill their bowels: because it is the stumblingblock of
their iniquity.

19. Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast, which was
diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were of
iron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, and
stamped the residue with his feet;

20. And
what can David say more unto thee? for thou, Lord GOD, knowest thy
servant.

20. And the chapiters upon the two pillars had pomegranates also
above, over against the belly which was by the network: and the
pomegranates were two hundred in rows round about upon the other
chapiter.

20. And so it fell out unto him: for the people trode upon him in the
gate, and he died.

20. And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath
his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,

20. Then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my
land which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified
for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a
proverb and a byword among all nations.

20. And whatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God,
which thou shalt have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king’s
treasure house.

20. The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.

20. I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou
preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so
that I am a burden to myself?

20. He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day
appointed.

20. For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and
sinneth not.

20. In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired,
namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head,
and the hair of the feet: and it shall also consume the beard.

20. Therefore thus
saith the Lord GOD; Behold, mine anger and my fury shall be poured out
upon this place, upon man, and upon beast, and upon the trees of the
field, and upon the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall
not be quenched.

20. As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty: but they
made the images of their abominations and of their detestable things
therein: therefore have I set it far from them.

20. And of the ten horns that were
in his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom three
fell; even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very
great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows.

21. For thy word’s sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou
done all these great things, to make thy servant know them.

21. And he set up the pillars in the porch of the temple: and he set
up the right pillar, and called the name thereof Jachin: and he set up
the left pillar, and called the name thereof Boaz.

21. And Zabad his
son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath
that were born in that land slew, because they came down to take away
their cattle.

21. And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to every
one that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath the LORD done
thus unto this land, and unto this house?

21. And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the
treasurers which are beyond the river, that whatsoever Ezra the
priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of
you, it be done speedily,

21. The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

21. And why dost thou not pardon my
transgression, and take away my iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the
dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be.

21. With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the
flattering of her lips she forced him.

21. Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear
thy servant curse thee:

21. And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish a
young cow, and two sheep;

21. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Put your burnt
offerings unto your sacrifices, and eat flesh.

21. And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey,
and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall pollute it.

21. I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and
prevailed against them;

22. Wherefore thou art great, O LORD God: for there is none like
thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we
have heard with our ears.

22. And upon the top of the pillars was lily work: so was the work of
the pillars finished.

22. And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came
to comfort him.

22. And it shall be
answered, Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, which
brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other
gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought
all this evil upon them.

22. Unto an hundred talents of silver, and
to an hundred measures of wheat, and to an hundred baths of wine, and
to an hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.

22. The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight.

22. He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter,
or as a fool to the correction of the stocks;

22. For oftentimes also thine own heart
knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.

22. And it shall come to pass, for the
abundance of milk that they shall give he shall eat butter: for butter
and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.

22. For I spake not unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the day
that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt
offerings or sacrifices:

22. My face will I turn also from them, and they shall pollute my
secret place: for the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it.

22. Until the Ancient of days came, and
judgment was given to the saints of the most High; and the time came
that the saints possessed the kingdom.

23. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like
Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make
him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for thy land,
before thy people, which thou redeemedst to thee from Egypt, from the
nations and their gods?

23. And he made a molten sea, ten cubits from the one brim to the
other: it was round all about, and his height was five cubits: and a
line of thirty cubits did compass it round about.

23. And when he went in to his wife, she conceived, and bare a son,
and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.

23. Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be
diligently done for the house of the God of heaven: for why should
there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?

23. The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four.

23. Till a dart strike
through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not
that it is for his life.

23. All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it
was far from me.

23. And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be,
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shall
even be for briers and thorns.

23. But this thing commanded I them, saying,
Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: and
walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well
unto you.

23. Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city
is full of violence.

23. Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon
earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the
whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.

24. For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy
people Israel to be a people unto thee for ever: and thou, LORD, art
become their God.

24. And under the brim of it round about there were knops compassing
it, ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about: the knops were
cast in two rows, when it was cast.

24. (And his daughter was Sherah, who built Bethhoron the nether, and
the upper, and Uzzensherah.)

24. Also
we certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, singers,
porters, Nethinims, or ministers of this house of God, it shall not be
lawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom, upon them.

24. The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.

24. Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the
words of my mouth.

24. That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?

24. With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because all the
land shall become briers and thorns.

24. But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the
counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and went
backward, and not forward.

24. Wherefore I will bring the worst of the heathen, and they shall
possess their houses: I will also make the pomp of the strong to
cease; and their holy places shall be defiled.

24. And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall
arise: and another shall rise after them; and he shall be diverse from
the first, and he shall subdue three kings.

25. And now, O LORD God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning
thy servant, and concerning his house, establish it for ever, and do
as thou hast said.

25. It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and
three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,
and all their hinder parts were inward.

25. And Rephah was his son, also
Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son.

25. And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God, that is in thine
hand, set magistrates and judges, which may judge all the people that
are beyond the river, all such as know the laws of thy God; and teach
ye them that know them not.

25. The children of Gibeon, ninety and five.

25. Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her
paths.

25. I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out
wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly,
even of foolishness and madness:

25. And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there
shall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns: but it shall be
for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lesser cattle.

25. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of
Egypt unto this day I have even sent unto you all my servants the
prophets, daily rising up early and sending them:

25. Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be
none.

25. And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shall
wear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times and
laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and
the dividing of time.

26. And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts
is the God over Israel: and let the house of thy servant David be
established before thee.

26. And it was an hand breadth thick, and the brim thereof was
wrought like the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies: it contained
two thousand baths.

26. Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son.

26. And whosoever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of the
king, let judgment be executed speedily upon him, whether it be unto
death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to
imprisonment.

26. The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and
eight.

26. For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have
been slain by her.

26. And I find more bitter than
death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as
bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall
be taken by her.

26. Yet they
hearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their
neck: they did worse than their fathers.

26. Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumour shall be upon
rumour; then shall they seek a vision of the prophet; but the law
shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the ancients.

26. But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his
dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end.

27. For thou, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy
servant, saying, I will build thee an house: therefore hath thy
servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee.

27. And he made ten bases of brass; four cubits was the length of one
base, and four cubits the breadth thereof, and three cubits the height
of it.

27. Non his son, Jehoshuah his son.

27. Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, which hath put such a
thing as this in the king’s heart, to beautify the house of the LORD
which is in Jerusalem:

27. The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

27. Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of
death.

27. Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by
one, to find out the account:

27. Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them; but they
will not hearken to thee: thou shalt also call unto them; but they
will not answer thee.

27. The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with
desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled:
I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts
will I judge them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

27. And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom
under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of
the most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all
dominions shall serve and obey him.

28. And now, O Lord GOD, thou art that God, and thy words be true,
and thou hast promised this goodness unto thy servant:

28. And the work of the bases was on this manner: they had borders,
and the borders were between the ledges:

28. And their possessions and habitations were, Bethel and the towns
thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns
thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the towns
thereof:

28. And hath extended mercy unto me before the
king, and his counsellors, and before all the king’s mighty princes.
And I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and
I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.

28. The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two.

28. Which yet my soul seeketh, but I
find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all
those have I not found.

28. But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth not
the voice of the LORD their God, nor receiveth correction: truth is
perished, and is cut off from their mouth.

28. Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for me Daniel, my
cogitations much troubled me, and my countenance changed in me: but I
kept the matter in my heart.

29. Therefore
now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may
continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken it:
and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for
ever.

29. And on the borders that
were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubims: and upon the
ledges there was a base above: and beneath the lions and oxen were
certain additions made of thin work.

29. And by the borders of the children of Manasseh,
Bethshean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns,
Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of
Israel.

29. The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred
forty and three.

29. Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but
they have sought out many inventions.

29. Cut off thine hair, O Jerusalem, and cast it away, and take up a
lamentation on high places; for the LORD hath rejected and forsaken
the generation of his wrath.

30. And every base had four brasen wheels, and plates of brass: and
the four corners thereof had undersetters: under the laver were
undersetters molten, at the side of every addition.

30. The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and
Serah their sister.

30. The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.

30. For the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith the
LORD: they have set their abominations in the house which is called by
my name, to pollute it.

31. And the mouth of it within the chapiter and above was a cubit:
but the mouth thereof was round after the work of the base, a cubit
and an half: and also upon the mouth of it were gravings with their
borders, foursquare, not round.

31. And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of
Birzavith.

31. The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.

31. And they have built the high places of Tophet, which is in the
valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in
the fire; which I commanded them not, neither came it into my heart.

32. And under the borders were four wheels; and the axletrees of the
wheels were joined to the base: and the height of a wheel was a cubit
and half a cubit.

32. And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their
sister.

32. The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three.

32. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shall
no more be called Tophet, nor the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the
valley of slaughter: for they shall bury in Tophet, till there be no
place.

33. And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel:
their axletrees, and their naves, and their felloes, and their spokes,
were all molten.

33. And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These
are the children of Japhlet.

33. The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.

33. And the carcases of this people shall be meat for the fowls of
the heaven, and for the beasts of the earth; and none shall fray them
away.

34. And there were four undersetters to the four corners of one base:
and the undersetters were of the very base itself.

34. And the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.

34. The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and
four.

34. Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the
streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness,
the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride: for the land
shall be desolate.

35. And in the top of the base was there a round compass of half a
cubit high: and on the top of the base the ledges thereof and the
borders thereof were of the same.

35. And the sons of his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh,
and Amal.

35. The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

36. For on the plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders
thereof, he graved cherubims, lions, and palm trees, according to the
proportion of every one, and additions round about.

36. The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and
Imrah,

36. The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

37. After this manner he made the ten bases: all of them had one
casting, one measure, and one size.

37. Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and
Beera.

37. The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and
one.

38. Then made he ten lavers of brass: one laver contained forty
baths: and every laver was four cubits: and upon every one of the ten
bases one laver.

38. And the sons of Jether; Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.

38. The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.

39. And he put five bases on the right side of the house, and five on
the left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of
the house eastward over against the south.

39. And the sons of Ulla; Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.

39. The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua,
nine hundred seventy and three.

40. And Hiram made the lavers, and the shovels, and the basons. So
Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king Solomon for
the house of the LORD:

40. All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father’s
house, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And the
number throughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war and
to battle was twenty and six thousand men.

40. The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.

41. The two pillars, and the two bowls of the
chapiters that were on the top of the two pillars; and the two
networks, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters which were upon the
top of the pillars;

41. The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

42. And four hundred pomegranates for the two
networks, even two rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the
two bowls of the chapiters that were upon the pillars;

42. The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

43. And the
ten bases, and ten lavers on the bases;

43. The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the
children of Hodevah, seventy and four.

44. And one sea, and twelve
oxen under the sea;

44. The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight.

45. And the pots, and the shovels, and the
basons: and all these vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon for
the house of the LORD, were of bright brass.

45. The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the
children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the
children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight.

46. In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth and Zarthan.

46. The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha,
the children of Tabbaoth,

47. And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because they were
exceeding many: neither was the weight of the brass found out.

47. The children of Keros, the children of
Sia, the children of Padon,

48. And Solomon made all the vessels that pertained unto the house of
the LORD: the altar of gold, and the table of gold, whereupon the
shewbread was,

48. The children of Lebana, the children
of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai,

49. And the candlesticks of pure gold, five on the
right side, and five on the left, before the oracle, with the flowers,
and the lamps, and the tongs of gold,

49. The children of Hanan, the
children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,

50. And the bowls, and the
snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons, and the censers of pure
gold; and the hinges of gold, both for the doors of the inner house,
the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, to wit, of the
temple.

50. The children of
Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,

51. So was ended all the work that king Solomon made for the house of
the LORD. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had
dedicated; even the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, did he put
among the treasures of the house of the LORD.

51. The
children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah,

52. The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of
Nephishesim,

53. The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the
children of Harhur,

54. The children of Bazlith, the children of
Mehida, the children of Harsha,

55. The children of Barkos, the
children of Sisera, the children of Tamah,

56. The children of
Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

57. The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the
children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,

58. The children of
Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,

59. The
children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of
Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.

60. All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were
three hundred ninety and two.

61. And these were they which went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha,
Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father’s
house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.

62. The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of
Nekoda, six hundred forty and two.

63. And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz,
the children of Barzillai, which took one of the daughters of
Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.

64. These sought their register among those that were reckoned by
genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put
from the priesthood.

65. And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the
most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.

66. The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three
hundred and threescore,

67. Beside their manservants and their
maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty
and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and
singing women.

68. Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two
hundred forty and five:

69. Their camels, four hundred thirty and
five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.

70. And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The
Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons,
five hundred and thirty priests’ garments.

71. And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the
work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred
pound of silver.

72. And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand
drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and
seven priests’ garments.

73. So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the
singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel,
dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children
of Israel were in their cities.