1. Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said
to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the ark
of the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.

1. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

1. My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready
for me.

1. Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my
prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

1. Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house
full of sacrifices with strife.

1. The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being
a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.

1. The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the
point of a diamond: it is graven upon the table of their heart, and
upon the horns of your altars;

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; for
God is with thee.

2. And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

2. Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in
their provocation?

2. Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes
behold the things that are equal.

2. A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and
shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren.

2. The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, which
shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.

2. Whilst their children remember
their altars and their groves by the green trees upon the high hills.

2. Son of man,
put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel;

3. And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to
Nathan, saying,

3. And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim;

3. Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee;
who is he that will strike hands with me?

3. Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night;
thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my
mouth shall not transgress.

3. The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the
LORD trieth the hearts.

3. The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from
Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of the
children of Israel, saith the LORD of hosts.

3. O my mountain in the field, I will give thy substance and all thy
treasures to the spoil, and thy high places for sin, throughout all
thy borders.

3. And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; A great eagle with great wings,
longwinged, full of feathers, which had divers colours, came unto
Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar:

4. Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith the
LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in:

4. But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

4. For thou hast hid
their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.

4. Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept
me from the paths of the destroyer.

4. A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to
a naughty tongue.

4. And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob
shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax lean.

4. And thou, even thyself, shalt discontinue from thine heritage
that I gave thee; and I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in the
land which thou knowest not: for ye have kindled a fire in mine anger,
which shall burn for ever.

4. He cropped off
the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land of traffick; he
set it in a city of merchants.

5. For I have
not dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this
day; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to
another.

5. Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in
abundance.

5. He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his
children shall fail.

5. Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

5. Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad
at calamities shall not be unpunished.

5. And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn, and
reapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be as he that gathereth
ears in the valley of Rephaim.

5. Thus saith the LORD; Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and
maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD.

5. He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a
fruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and set it as a willow
tree.

6. Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any
of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying,
Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?

6. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

6. He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was
as a tabret.

6. I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline
thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.

6. Children’s children are the crown of old men; and the glory of
children are their fathers.

6. Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an
olive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough,
four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the LORD
God of Israel.

6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see
when good cometh; but shall inhabit the parched places in the
wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited.

6. And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose
branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: so
it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.

7. Now therefore thus
shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I
took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thou
shouldest be ruler over my people Israel:

7. Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

7. Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are
as a shadow.

7. Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy
right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up
against them.

7. Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a
prince.

7. At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall
have respect to the Holy One of Israel.

7. Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope the
LORD is.

7. There was also another great eagle with great wings and many
feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and
shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the
furrows of her plantation.

8. And I have been with
thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine
enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name of
the great men that are in the earth.

8. And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,
and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram, priests.

8. Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall
stir up himself against the hypocrite.

8. Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy
wings,

8. A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it:
whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.

8. And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands,
neither shall respect that which his fingers have made, either the
groves, or the images.

8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that
spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heat
cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the
year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.

8. It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it might
bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a
goodly vine.

9. Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant
them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;
neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at
the beginning,

9. And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD
with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the people.

9. The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean
hands shall be stronger and stronger.

9. From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who
compass me about.

9. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that
repeateth a matter separateth very friends.

9. In that day shall his strong cities be as a forsaken bough, and
an uppermost branch, which they left because of the children of
Israel: and there shall be desolation.

9. The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked:
who can know it?

9. Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he not
pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it
wither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without
great power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof.

10. And since the time that I commanded judges to be
over my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.
Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.

10. And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

10. But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot
find one wise man among you.

10. They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak
proudly.

10. A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes
into a fool.

10. Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast
not been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thou
plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips:

10. I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins,
even to give every man according to his ways, and according to the
fruit of his doings.

10. Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not
utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in the
furrows where it grew.

11. And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after
thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

11. Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

11. My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts
of my heart.

11. They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their
eyes bowing down to the earth;

11. An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger
shall be sent against him.

11. In
the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shalt
thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in the
day of grief and of desperate sorrow.

11. As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not; so he
that getteth riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midst
of his days, and at his end shall be a fool.

11. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

12. He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for
ever.

12. And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

12. They change the night into day: the light is short because of
darkness.

12. Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a
young lion lurking in secret places.

12. Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool
in his folly.

12. Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like the
noise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that make a rushing
like the rushing of mighty waters!

12. A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of our
sanctuary.

12. Say
now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these things mean? tell
them, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath taken
the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to
Babylon;

13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before
thee:

13. And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

13. If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the
darkness.

13. Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul
from the wicked, which is thy sword:

13. Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his
house.

13. The nations shall rush like
the rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shall
flee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before
the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.

13. O LORD, the hope of Israel, all that forsake thee shall be
ashamed, and they that depart from me shall be written in the earth,
because they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.

13. And hath taken of the king’s seed, and made a covenant
with him, and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty
of the land:

14. But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for
ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

14. And these are the numbers of them according to the house of
their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

14. I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou
art my mother, and my sister.

14. From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world,
which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest
with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest
of their substance to their babes.

14. The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water:
therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with.

14. And behold at eveningtide trouble; and before the morning he is
not.

This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that
rob us.

14. Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be
saved: for thou art my praise.

14. That the kingdom might be base, that it might not
lift itself up, but that by keeping of his covenant it might stand.

15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

15. And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

15. And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?

15. As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be
satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.

15. He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just,
even they both are abomination to the LORD.

15. Behold, they say unto me, Where is the word of the LORD? let it
come now.

15. But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into
Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall he
prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break the
covenant, and be delivered?

16. And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who
am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto?

16. And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

16. They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest
together is in the dust.

16. Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom,
seeing he hath no heart to it?

16. As for me, I have not hastened from being a pastor to follow
thee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that which
came out of my lips was right before thee.

16. As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
surely in the place where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose
oath he despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him in the
midst of Babylon he shall die.

17. And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;
for thou hast also spoken of thy servant’s house for a great while to
come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high
degree, O LORD God.

17. And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

17. A friend loveth at all times,
and a brother is born for adversity.

17. Be not a terror unto me: thou art my hope in the day of evil.

17. Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company
make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to
cut off many persons:

18. What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant?
for thou knowest thy servant.

18. And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

18. A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety
in the presence of his friend.

18. Let them be confounded that persecute me, but let not me be
confounded: let them be dismayed, but let not me be dismayed: bring
upon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.

18. Seeing he despised the oath by breaking
the covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all these
things, he shall not escape.

19. O LORD, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own
heart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all these
great things.

19. These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

19. He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth
his gate seeketh destruction.

19. Thus said the LORD unto me; Go and stand in the gate of the
children of the people, whereby the kings of Judah come in, and by the
which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;

19. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely mine oath
that he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even it
will I recompense upon his own head.

20. O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside
thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

20. He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a
perverse tongue falleth into mischief.

20. And say
unto them, Hear ye the word of the LORD, ye kings of Judah, and all
Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by these
gates:

20. And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my
snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him there
for his trespass that he hath trespassed against me.

21. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom
God went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name of
greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thy
people whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?

21. He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father
of a fool hath no joy.

21. Thus saith the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and bear no
burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;

21. And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the
sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: and
ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken it.

22. For thy people
Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,
becamest their God.

22. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit
drieth the bones.

22. Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath
day, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as I
commanded your fathers.

22. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also take of the highest branch
of the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top of
his young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon an high mountain
and eminent:

23. Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken
concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for
ever, and do as thou hast said.

23. A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways
of judgment.

23. But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made their
neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.

23. In the mountain of the height of Israel will I
plant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a
goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the
shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell.

24. Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for
ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and let the house of David thy servant be established before
thee.

24. Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a
fool are in the ends of the earth.

24. And it shall come to pass, if ye diligently hearken unto me,
saith the LORD, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city
on the sabbath day, but hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;

24. And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have
brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up
the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I the LORD
have spoken and have done it.

25. For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt build
him an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to pray
before thee.

25. A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her
that bare him.

25. Then shall there enter into the gates of this city kings and
princes sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on
horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants
of Jerusalem: and this city shall remain for ever.

26. And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodness
unto thy servant:

26. Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for
equity.

26. And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the
places about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the
plain, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burnt
offerings, and sacrifices, and meat offerings, and incense, and
bringing sacrifices of praise, unto the house of the LORD.

27. Now therefore let it please thee to bless the
house of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thou
blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.

27. He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of
understanding is of an excellent spirit.

27. But if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day,
and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem
on the sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof,
and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be
quenched.

28. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he
that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.