1. Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of the
Philistines.

1. Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joined
affinity with Ahab.

1. Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

1. I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

1. Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and
intermeddleth with all wisdom.

1. Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers
of Ethiopia:

1. The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

1. The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying,

2. And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David’s servants, and
brought gifts.

2. And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab
killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that he
had with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramothgilead.

2. How long will it
be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.

2. The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God,
my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my
salvation, and my high tower.

2. A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may
discover itself.

2. That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels
of bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to a
nation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their beginning
hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivers
have spoiled!

2. Arise, and go down to the potter’s house, and there I will cause thee
to hear my words.

2. What mean
ye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying,
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set
on edge?

3. And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went
to stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates.

3. And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt
thou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he answered him, I am as thou
art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.

3. Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your
sight?

3. I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall
I be saved from mine enemies.

3. When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with
ignominy reproach.

3. All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on
the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and
when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye.

3. Then I went down to the potter’s house, and, behold, he wrought a
work on the wheels.

3. As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not have
occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.

4. And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand
horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also houghed all the
chariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots.

4. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray
thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

4. He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be
forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place?

4. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid.

4. The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring
of wisdom as a flowing brook.

4. For so the LORD said unto me, I will take my rest, and I will
consider in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like a
cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.

4. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the
potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the
potter to make it.

4. Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also
the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.

5. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of
Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.

5. Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four
hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramothgilead to
battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver
it into the king’s hand.

5. Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of
his fire shall not shine.

5. The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death
prevented me.

5. It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow
the righteous in judgment.

5. For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfect, and the sour
grape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigs with
pruning hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.

5. Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

5. But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right,

6. Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians became
David’s servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David
whithersoever he went.

6. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?

6. The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall
be put out with him.

6. In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he
heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even
into his ears.

6. A fool’s lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for
strokes.

6. They shall be left together unto the fowls of the mountains, and
to the beasts of the earth: and the fowls shall summer upon them, and
all the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.

6. O house of
Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the LORD. Behold,
as the clay is in the potter’s hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house
of Israel.

6. And hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyes
to the idols of the house of Israel, neither hath defiled his
neighbour’s wife, neither hath come near to a menstruous woman,

7. And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of
Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

7. And the king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire of
the LORD: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but
always evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat
said, Let not the king say so.

7. The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own
counsel shall cast him down.

7. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

7. A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of
his soul.

7. In that time shall the present be brought unto the LORD of hosts
of a people scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible from
their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot,
whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the name of the
LORD of hosts, the mount Zion.

7. At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning
a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it;

7. And hath not oppressed any, but hath restored to the debtor his
pledge, hath spoiled none by violence, hath given his bread to the
hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment;

8. Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer,
brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea,
and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

8. And the king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said,
Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.

8. For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a
snare.

8. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

8. The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into
the innermost parts of the belly.

8. If
that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their evil, I
will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them.

8. He that hath
not given forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hath
withdrawn his hand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment between
man and man,

9. Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the
host of Hadarezer king of Zobah;

9. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat either
of them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in a void
place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets
prophesied before them.

9. The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail
against him.

9. He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under
his feet.

9. He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a
great waster.

9. And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and
concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it;

9. Hath walked in my statutes, and hath kept my
judgments, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, saith the
Lord GOD.

10. He sent Hadoram his son to king
David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he
had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war
with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and
brass.

10. And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron,
and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria until
they be consumed.

10. The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in
the way.

10. And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the
wings of the wind.

10. The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth
into it, and is safe.

10. If it do evil in
my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good,
wherewith I said I would benefit them.

10. If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and that
doeth the like to any one of these things,

11. Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver
and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and
from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines,
and from Amalek.

11. And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand
of the king.

11. Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him
to his feet.

11. He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him
were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

11. The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in
his own conceit.

11. Now therefore go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I frame
evil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye now every
one from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good.

11. And that doeth not
any of those duties, but even hath eaten upon the mountains, and
defiled his neighbour’s wife,

12. Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the
valley of salt eighteen thousand.

12. And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him,
saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king
with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of
theirs, and speak thou good.

12. His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be
ready at his side.

12. At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of fire.

12. Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before
honour is humility.

12. And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk after our own
devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart.

12. Hath oppressed the poor and needy,
hath spoiled by violence, hath not restored the pledge, and hath
lifted up his eyes to the idols, hath committed abomination,

13. And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became
David’s servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

13. And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith,
that will I speak.

13. It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of
death shall devour his strength.

13. The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his
voice; hail stones and coals of fire.

13. He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and
shame unto him.

13. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ask ye now among the heathen, who
hath heard such things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very horrible
thing.

13. Hath given forth upon usury, and hath taken increase: shall he then
live? he shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he shall
surely die; his blood shall be upon him.

14. So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and
justice among all his people.

14. And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him,
Micaiah, shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear?
And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into
your hand.

14. His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it
shall bring him to the king of terrors.

14. Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out
lightnings, and discomfited them.

14. The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded
spirit who can bear?

14. Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rock
of the field? or shall the cold flowing waters that come from another
place be forsaken?

14. Now, lo, if he beget a son, that seeth all his father’s sins
which he hath done, and considereth, and doeth not such like,

15. And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat
the son of Ahilud, recorder.

15. And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?

15. It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his:
brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.

15. Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of
the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the
breath of thy nostrils.

15. The heart of the prudent getteth
knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.

15. Because my people hath forgotten me, they
have burned incense to vanity, and they have caused them to stumble in
their ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not cast
up;

15. That hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his
eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hath not defiled his
neighbour’s wife,

16. And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar,
were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe;

16. Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains,
as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no
master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

16. His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch
be cut off.

16. He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

16. A man’s gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great
men.

16. To make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing; every
one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.

16. Neither hath oppressed any, hath not
withholden the pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath
given his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a
garment,

17. And Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of
David were chief about the king.

17. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee
that he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?

17. His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have
no name in the street.

17. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

17. He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his
neighbour cometh and searcheth him.

17. I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I
will shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of their
calamity.

17. That hath taken off his hand from the poor, that hath
not received usury nor increase, hath executed my judgments, hath
walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his
father, he shall surely live.

18. Again he
said, Therefore hear the word of the LORD; I saw the LORD sitting upon
his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and
on his left.

18. He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of
the world.

18. They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

18. The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the
mighty.

18. Then said they, Come and let us devise devices against Jeremiah;
for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the
wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, and let us smite him with
the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words.

18. As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, spoiled his
brother by violence, and did that which is not good among his people,
lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.

19. And the LORD said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he
may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spake saying after this
manner, and another saying after that manner.

19. He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any
remaining in his dwellings.

19. He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

19. A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and
their contentions are like the bars of a castle.

19. Give heed to me, O LORD, and hearken to the voice of them that
contend with me.

19. Yet say ye, Why? doth not the son bear the iniquity of the
father? When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, and
hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live.

20. Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will entice him. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?

20. They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they
that went before were affrighted.

20. The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

20. A man’s belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth;
and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.

20. Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pit
for my soul. Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them,
and to turn away thy wrath from them.

20. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bear the
iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of
the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the
wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.

21. And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all
his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou shalt
also prevail: go out, and do even so.

21. Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the
place of him that knoweth not God.

21. For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

21. Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that
love it shall eat the fruit thereof.

21. Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour out
their blood by the force of the sword; and let their wives be bereaved
of their children, and be widows; and let their men be put to death;
let their young men be slain by the sword in battle.

21. But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath
committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and
right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

22. Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil against
thee.

22. For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his
statutes from me.

22. Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour
of the LORD.

22. Let a cry be heard from their houses, when thou shalt bring a
troop suddenly upon them: for they have digged a pit to take me, and
hid snares for my feet.

22. All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be
mentioned unto him: in his righteousness that he hath done he shall
live.

23. Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah
upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from
me to speak unto thee?

23. I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine
iniquity.

23. The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.

23. Yet, LORD, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me:
forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight,
but let them be overthrown before thee; deal thus with them in the
time of thine anger.

23. Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? saith the
Lord GOD: and not that he should return from his ways, and live?

24. And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see
on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

24. Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my
righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

24. A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is
a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.

24. But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, and
committeth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that
the wicked man doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that he
hath done shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hath
trespassed, and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.

25. Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him
back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;

25. With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

25. Yet ye say, The way of the LORD is not equal. Hear now, O house
of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?

26. And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and
feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until
I return in peace.

26. With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself froward.

26. When
a righteous man turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth
iniquity, and dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shall
he die.

27. And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath
not the LORD spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.

27. For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down
high looks.

27. Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness that
he hath committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall
save his soul alive.

28. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

28. For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my
darkness.

28. Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his
transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall
not die.

29. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and I will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the
king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.

29. For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I
leaped over a wall.

29. Yet saith the house of Israel, The way of the LORD is not equal.
O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal?

30. Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots
that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save
only with the king of Israel.

30. As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

30. Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one
according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD. Repent, and turn yourselves
from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.

31. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they
compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD
helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.

31. For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?

31. Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye have
transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will
ye die, O house of Israel?

32. For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots
perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again
from pursuing him.

32. It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way
perfect.

32. For I have no pleasure in the death
of him that dieth, saith the Lord GOD: wherefore turn yourselves, and
live ye.

33. And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his
chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the
host; for I am wounded.

33. He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet, and setteth me upon my high
places.

34. And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel
stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even:
and about the time of the sun going down he died.

34. He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

35. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

36. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

37. I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I
turn again till they were consumed.

38. I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are
fallen under my feet.

39. For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast
subdued under me those that rose up against me.

40. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might
destroy them that hate me.

41. They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD,
but he answered them not.

42. Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did
cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

43. Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and
thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not
known shall serve me.

44. As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers
shall submit themselves unto me.

45. The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close
places.

46. The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my
salvation be exalted.

47. It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

48. He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up
above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the
violent man.

49. Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

50. Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.