1. And it came to pass, that after the year was expired, at the time
that kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army, and
wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged
Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, and
destroyed it.

1. It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and
the children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came
against Jehoshaphat to battle.

1. Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,

1. The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend thee;

1. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is
deceived thereby is not wise.

1. In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargon the king
of Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it;

1. Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chief
governor in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah prophesied
these things.

1. And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the
tenth day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to
enquire of the LORD, and sat before me.

2. And David took the crown of their king from off his head, and
found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in
it; and it was set upon David’s head: and he brought also exceeding
much spoil out of the city.

2. Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh
a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria;
and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.

2. Therefore do
my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.

2. Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of
Zion;

2. The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh
him to anger sinneth against his own soul.

2. At
the same time spake the LORD by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and
loose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy
foot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.

2. Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks
that were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the
LORD.

2. Then came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,

3. And he brought out the people that were in it, and cut them with
saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt David
with all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the
people returned to Jerusalem.

3. And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, and
proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.

3. I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my
understanding causeth me to answer.

3. Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice;
Selah.

3. It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool
will be meddling.

3. And the LORD said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked naked
and barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and upon
Ethiopia;

3. And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forth
Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah unto him, The LORD hath
not called thy name Pashur, but Magormissabib.

3. Son of man,
speak unto the elders of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith the
Lord GOD; Are ye come to enquire of me? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

4. And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer
with the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slew
Sippai, that was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.

4. And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD:
even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

4. Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,

4. Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy
counsel.

4. The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall
he beg in harvest, and have nothing.

4. So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptians
prisoners, and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and
barefoot, even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.

4. For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will make thee a terror to
thyself, and to all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword of
their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it: and I will give all
Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them
captive into Babylon, and shall slay them with the sword.

4. Wilt thou judge them, son of man, wilt thou judge them? cause
them to know the abominations of their fathers:

5. And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son
of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear
staff was like a weaver’s beam.

5. And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem,
in the house of the LORD, before the new court,

5. That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the
hypocrite but for a moment?

5. We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we
will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.

5. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of
understanding will draw it out.

5. And they shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia their
expectation, and of Egypt their glory.

5. Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city, and all
the labours thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all the
treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their
enemies, which shall spoil them, and take them, and carry them to
Babylon.

5. And say unto
them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when I chose Israel, and
lifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and made
myself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up mine
hand unto them, saying, I am the LORD your God;

6. And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great
stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each
hand, and six on each foot and he also was the son of the giant.

6. And said, O LORD
God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thou
over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there not
power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?

6. Though his excellency mount up to
the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds;

6. Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him
from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.

6. Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful
man who can find?

6. And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold,
such is our expectation, whither we flee for help to be delivered from
the king of Assyria: and how shall we escape?

6. And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house shall go into
captivity: and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die,
and shalt be buried there, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thou
hast prophesied lies.

6. In the day that I
lifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land of
Egypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk and
honey, which is the glory of all lands:

7. But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David’s
brother slew him.

7. Art not
thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before
thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for
ever?

7. Yet he shall
perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say,
Where is he?

7. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember
the name of the LORD our God.

7. The just man walketh in his integrity: his
children are blessed after him.

7. O LORD, thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived; thou art
stronger than I, and hast prevailed: I am in derision daily, every one
mocketh me.

7. Then said I unto them,
Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, and defile not
yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

8. These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand of his servants.

8. And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary
therein for thy name, saying,

8. He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be
found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.

8. They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand
upright.

8. A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all
evil with his eyes.

8. For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil;
because the word of the LORD was made a reproach unto me, and a
derision, daily.

8. But they rebelled against me, and would not hearken unto me: they
did not every man cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither
did they forsake the idols of Egypt: then I said, I will pour out my
fury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of
the land of Egypt.

9. If, when evil cometh upon us, as
the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before this
house, and in thy presence, (for thy name is in this house,) and cry
unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help.

9. The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall
his place any more behold him.

9. Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.

9. Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?

9. Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more
in his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up
in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.

9. But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be polluted
before the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myself
known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.

10. And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir,
whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the
land of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed them not;

10. His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall
restore their goods.

10. Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike
abomination to the LORD.

10. For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report,
say they, and we will report it. All my familiars watched for my
halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail
against him, and we shall take our revenge on him.

10. Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt,
and brought them into the wilderness.

11. Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy
possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.

11. His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down
with him in the dust.

11. Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure,
and whether it be right.

11. But the LORD is with me as a mighty terrible one: therefore my
persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall be
greatly ashamed; for they shall not prosper: their everlasting
confusion shall never be forgotten.

11. And I gave them my statutes, and shewed them my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them.

12. O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might
against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we
what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.

12. Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under
his tongue;

12. The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even
both of them.

12. But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest the
reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee
have I opened my cause.

12. Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me
and them, that they might know that I am the LORD that sanctify them.

13. And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones,
their wives, and their children.

13. Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it
still within his mouth:

13. Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and
thou shalt be satisfied with bread.

13. Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD: for he hath delivered
the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.

13. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness:
they walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them; and my sabbaths they greatly
polluted: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon them in the
wilderness, to consume them.

14. Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the
son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph,
came the Spirit of the LORD in the midst of the congregation;

14. Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it
is the gall of asps within him.

14. It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone
his way, then he boasteth.

14. Cursed be the day wherein I was born: let not the day wherein my
mother bare me be blessed.

14. But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be polluted
before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them out.

15. And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the LORD unto you, Be not afraid
nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not
yours, but God’s.

15. He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again:
God shall cast them out of his belly.

15. There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of
knowledge are a precious jewel.

15. Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A
man child is born unto thee; making him very glad.

15. Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that I
would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing
with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands;

16. To morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the
cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, before
the wilderness of Jeruel.

16. He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper’s tongue shall slay
him.

16. Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a
pledge of him for a strange woman.

16. And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew, and
repented not: and let him hear the cry in the morning, and the
shouting at noontide;

16. Because
they despised my judgments, and walked not in my statutes, but
polluted my sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.

17. Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand
ye still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and
Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go out against them:
for the LORD will be with you.

17. He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and
butter.

17. Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth
shall be filled with gravel.

17. Because he slew me not from the womb; or
that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always
great with me.

17. Nevertheless mine eye spared them from destroying them, neither
did I make an end of them in the wilderness.

18. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: and
all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD,
worshipping the LORD.

18. That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not
swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be,
and he shall not rejoice therein.

18. Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice
make war.

18. Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labour and sorrow,
that my days should be consumed with shame?

18. But I said unto their children in the wilderness, Walk ye not in
the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their judgments, nor
defile yourselves with their idols:

19. And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of the
children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel
with a loud voice on high.

19. Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he
hath violently taken away an house which he builded not;

19. He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore
meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.

19. I am the LORD your God; walk
in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them;

20. And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the
wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and
said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in
the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets,
so shall ye prosper.

20. Surely
he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that
which he desired.

20. Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put
out in obscure darkness.

20. And hallow
my sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that ye may
know that I am the LORD your God.

21. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers
unto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness, as they
went out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

21. There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man
look for his goods.

21. An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the
end thereof shall not be blessed.

21. Notwithstanding the children rebelled against me: they walked
not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, which if a
man do, he shall even live in them; they polluted my sabbaths: then I
said, I would pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger
against them in the wilderness.

22. And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set
ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which
were come against Judah; and they were smitten.

22. In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every
hand of the wicked shall come upon him.

22. Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and
he shall save thee.

22. Nevertheless I withdrew mine hand, and wrought for my name’s
sake, that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen, in
whose sight I brought them forth.

23. For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the
inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and when
they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to
destroy another.

23. When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of
his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating.

23. Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; and a false
balance is not good.

23. I lifted up mine hand unto them also in the wilderness, that I
would scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them through the
countries;

24. And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness,
they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies
fallen to the earth, and none escaped.

24. He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall
strike him through.

24. Man’s goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his
own way?

24. Because they had not executed my judgments, but had
despised my statutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyes
were after their fathers’ idols.

25. And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil
of them, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead
bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves,
more than they could carry away: and they were three days in gathering
of the spoil, it was so much.

25. It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering
sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.

25. It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is
holy, and after vows to make enquiry.

25. Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, and
judgments whereby they should not live;

26. And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of
Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of the
same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

26. All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown
shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his
tabernacle.

26. A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over
them.

26. And I polluted them in
their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all that
openeth the womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end that
they might know that I am the LORD.

27. Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and
Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with
joy; for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies.

27. The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise
up against him.

27. The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the
inward parts of the belly.

27. Therefore, son of man, speak unto the house of Israel, and say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Yet in this your fathers have
blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.

28. And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and
trumpets unto the house of the LORD.

28. The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow
away in the day of his wrath.

28. Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by
mercy.

28. For when I had brought them into the land, for the which I
lifted up mine hand to give it to them, then they saw every high hill,
and all the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, and
there they presented the provocation of their offering: there also
they made their sweet savour, and poured out there their drink
offerings.

29. And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries,
when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of
Israel.

29. This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage
appointed unto him by God.

29. The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old
men is the grey head.

29. Then I said unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go?
And the name whereof is called Bamah unto this day.

30. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him rest
round about.

30. The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the
inward parts of the belly.

30. Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? and commit ye
whoredom after their abominations?

31. And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years
old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years in
Jerusalem.

And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

31. For when ye offer your
gifts, when ye make your sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute
yourselves with all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I be
enquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

32. And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not
from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD.

32. And that which cometh into your mind shall not be at all, that
ye say, We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries,
to serve wood and stone.

33. Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet the
people had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.

33. As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand, and
with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, will I rule over
you:

34. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold,
they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who is
mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.

34. And I will bring you out from the people, and will gather
you out of the countries wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand,
and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out.

35. And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with
Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly:

35. And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and
there will I plead with you face to face.

36. And he joined
himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the
ships in Eziongaber.

36. Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the
land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD.

37. Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against
Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah,
the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they
were not able to go to Tarshish.

37. And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you
into the bond of the covenant:

38. And I will purge out from among
you the rebels, and them that transgress against me: I will bring them
forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enter
into the land of Israel: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

39. As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD; Go ye,
serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will not
hearken unto me: but pollute ye my holy name no more with your gifts,
and with your idols.

40. For in mine holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of
Israel, saith the Lord GOD, there shall all the house of Israel, all
of them in the land, serve me: there will I accept them, and there
will I require your offerings, and the firstfruits of your oblations,
with all your holy things.

41. I will accept you with your sweet savour, when I bring you out
from the people, and gather you out of the countries wherein ye have
been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you before the heathen.

42. And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall bring you
into the land of Israel, into the country for the which I lifted up
mine hand to give it to your fathers.

43. And there shall ye remember your ways, and all your doings,
wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall lothe yourselves in your
own sight for all your evils that ye have committed.

44. And ye shall know that I am the LORD when I have wrought with
you for my name’s sake, not according to your wicked ways, nor
according to your corrupt doings, O ye house of Israel, saith the Lord
GOD.

45. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

46. Son of
man, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the
south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field;

47. And
say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the LORD; Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall
devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flame
shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall
be burned therein.

48. And all flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it: it
shall not be quenched.

49. Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! they say of me, Doth he not speak
parables?