1. So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son
king over Israel.

1. And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took
the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the
son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of
Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

1. Then Job answered and said,

1. The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

1. When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what
is before thee:

1. The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid
waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of
Chittim it is revealed to them.

1. Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my
pasture! saith the LORD.

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the
priests and the Levites.

2. And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all
the cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they
came to Jerusalem.

2. Even to day is my complaint
bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning.

2. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
the still waters.

2. And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man
given to appetite.

2. Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants of
Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.

2. Therefore thus saith the LORD God of Israel against the pastors
that feed my people; Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away,
and have not visited them: behold, I will visit upon you the evil of
your doings, saith the LORD.

2. Son of man,
there were two women, the daughters of one mother:

3. Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and
upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and
eight thousand.

3. And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the
house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king’s son shall
reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.

3. Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to
his seat!

3. He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name’s sake.

3. Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.

3. And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river,
is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations.

3. And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all countries
whither I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds;
and they shall be fruitful and increase.

3. And they
committed whoredoms in Egypt; they committed whoredoms in their youth:
there were their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats of
their virginity.

4. Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work
of the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:

4. This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering
on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of
the doors;

4. I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth
with arguments.

4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they
comfort me.

4. Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.

4. Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even the
strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children,
neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.

4. And I will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them: and
they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be
lacking, saith the LORD.

4. And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her
sister: and they were mine, and they bare sons and daughters. Thus
were their names; Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.

5. Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praised
the LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praise
therewith.

5. And a third part shall be at the king’s house; and a
third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be
in the courts of the house of the LORD.

5. I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand
what he would say unto me.

5. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

5. Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches
certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward
heaven.

5. As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained
at the report of Tyre.

5. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto
David a righteous Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, and
shall execute judgment and justice in the earth.

5. And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted on
her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbours,

6. And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi,
namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

6. But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,
and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are
holy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.

6. Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would
put strength in me.

6. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.

6. Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither
desire thou his dainty meats:

6. Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.

6. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely:
and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OUR
RIGHTEOUSNESS.

6. Which were clothed
with blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men,
horsemen riding upon horses.

7. Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.

7. And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man
with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into the
house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he
cometh in, and when he goeth out.

7. There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be
delivered for ever from my judge.

7. For as he thinketh in his heart, so
is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with
thee.

7. Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her
own feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn.

7. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that they shall
no more say, The LORD liveth, which brought up the children of Israel
out of the land of Egypt;

7. Thus she committed her whoredoms with them, with all them that
were the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom she doted: with
all their idols she defiled herself.

8. The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel,
three.

8. So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that
Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that
were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on the
sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

8. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I
cannot perceive him:

8. The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose
thy sweet words.

8. Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city,
whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of
the earth?

8. But, The LORD liveth, which brought up
and which led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north
country, and from all countries whither I had driven them; and they
shall dwell in their own land.

8. Neither left she her whoredoms brought from Egypt: for in her
youth they lay with her, and they bruised the breasts of her
virginity, and poured their whoredom upon her.

9. The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three.
These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

9. Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of
hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king
David’s, which were in the house of God.

9. On the left hand, where he doth work, but I
cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot
see him:

9. Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom
of thy words.

9. The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the
pride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of
the earth.

9. Mine heart within me is broken because of the prophets; all my
bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine hath
overcome, because of the LORD, and because of the words of his
holiness.

9. Wherefore I have delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into
the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.

10. And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and
Beriah.

These four were the sons of Shimei.

10. And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his
hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the
temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.

10. But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried
me, I shall come forth as gold.

10. Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of
the fatherless:

10. Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there
is no more strength.

10. For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the
land mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and
their course is evil, and their force is not right.

10. These discovered her nakedness: they took her sons and her
daughters, and slew her with the sword: and she became famous among
women; for they had executed judgment upon her.

11. And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and
Beriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,
according to their father’s house.

11. Then they brought out the king’s son, and put upon him the
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and
his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

11. My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not
declined.

11. For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead
their cause with thee.

11. He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms:
the LORD hath given a commandment against the merchant city, to
destroy the strong holds thereof.

11. For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I
found their wickedness, saith the LORD.

11. And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was more corrupt in
her inordinate love than she, and in her whoredoms more than her
sister in her whoredoms.

12. The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

12. Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and
praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:

12. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I
have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.

12. Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words
of knowledge.

12. And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed
virgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also
shalt thou have no rest.

12. Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the
darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bring
evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.

12. She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbours, captains and rulers
clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of them
desirable young men.

13. The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,
that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for
ever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and to
bless in his name for ever.

13. And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the
people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the
singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise.
Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

13. But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul
desireth, even that he doeth.

13. Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him
with the rod, he shall not die.

13. Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the
Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up
the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought
it to ruin.

13. And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they
prophesied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.

13. Then I saw that she was defiled, that they took both one way,

14. Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the
tribe of Levi.

14. Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds
that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For
the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.

14. For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many
such things are with him.

14. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul
from hell.

14. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.

14. I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing:
they commit adultery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the hands
of evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness; they are all
of them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.

14. And that she increased her whoredoms: for when she saw men
pourtrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans pourtrayed with
vermilion,

15. The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

15. So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering
of the horse gate by the king’s house, they slew her there.

15. Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am
afraid of him.

15. My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even
mine.

15. And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be
forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after the
end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot.

15. Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets;
Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the water
of gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profaneness gone forth
into all the land.

15. Girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding in
dyed attire upon their heads, all of them princes to look to, after
the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their nativity:

16. Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.

16. And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the
people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD’s people.

16. For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:

16. Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.

16. Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been
forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be
remembered.

16. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the
prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a
vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the LORD.

16. And as soon as she saw them with her eyes, she doted upon them,
and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea.

17. And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer
had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

17. Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it
down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan
the priest of Baal before the altars.

17. Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he
covered the darkness from my face.

17. Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the
LORD all the day long.

17. And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that
the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall
commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of
the earth.

17. They say still unto them that despise me, The LORD hath said, Ye
shall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after the
imagination of his own heart, No evil shall come upon you.

17. And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they
defiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with them, and
her mind was alienated from them.

18. Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

18. Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by
the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the
house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it
was ordained by David.

18. For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be
cut off.

18. And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD:
it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be
for them that dwell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and for
durable clothing.

18. For who hath stood in the counsel of the LORD, and hath
perceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and heard it?

18. So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness:
then my mind was alienated from her, like as my mind was alienated
from her sister.

19. Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

19. And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD,
that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.

19. Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the
way.

19. Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth in fury, even a
grievous whirlwind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of the
wicked.

19. Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to remembrance the
days of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of
Egypt.

20. Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

20. And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the
governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought
down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the
high gate into the king’s house, and set the king upon the throne of
the kingdom.

20. Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh:

20. The anger of the LORD shall not return, until he have executed,
and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart: in the latter
days ye shall consider it perfectly.

20. For she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh
of asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.

21. The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;
Eleazar, and Kish.

21. And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet,
after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.

21. For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness
shall clothe a man with rags.

21. I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spoken
to them, yet they prophesied.

21. Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, in
bruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy youth.

22. And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their
brethren the sons of Kish took them.

22. Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy
mother when she is old.

22. But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people to
hear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil way,
and from the evil of their doings.

22. Therefore, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will
raise up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy mind is alienated, and
I will bring them against thee on every side;

23. The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

23. Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction,
and understanding.

23. Am I a God at hand, saith the LORD, and not a God afar off?

23. The Babylonians,
and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians
with them: all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great
lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.

24. These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;
even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the
LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

24. The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that
begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.

24. Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him?
saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD.

24. And they shall come against thee with chariots, wagons, and
wheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against thee
buckler and shield and helmet round about: and I will set judgment
before them, and they shall judge thee according to their judgments.

25. For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever:

25. Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee
shall rejoice.

25. I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my
name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.

25. And I will set my jealousy against thee, and they shall deal
furiously with thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; and
thy remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy
daughters; and thy residue shall be devoured by the fire.

26. And also unto
the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels
of it for the service thereof.

26. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.

26. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that
prophesy lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own
heart;

26. They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes, and take away thy
fair jewels.

27. For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from
twenty years old and above:

27. For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow
pit.

27. Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their
dreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers
have forgotten my name for Baal.

27. Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from thee, and thy
whoredom brought from the land of Egypt: so that thou shalt not lift
up thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more.

28. Because their office was to wait on
the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the
courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things,
and the work of the service of the house of God;

28. She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the
transgressors among men.

28. The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that
hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff to
the wheat? saith the LORD.

28. For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver thee into
the hand of them whom thou hatest, into the hand of them from whom thy
mind is alienated:

29. Both for the
shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for the
unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that
which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size;

29. Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath
babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?

29. Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORD; and like a hammer
that breaketh the rock in pieces?

29. And they shall deal with thee hatefully, and
shall take away all thy labour, and shall leave thee naked and bare:
and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be discovered, both thy
lewdness and thy whoredoms.

30. And to
stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at
even:

30. They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed
wine.

30. Therefore, behold, I am
against the prophets, saith the LORD, that steal my words every one
from his neighbour.

30. I will do these things unto thee, because thou hast gone a
whoring after the heathen, and because thou art polluted with their
idols.

31. And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the
sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number,
according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the
LORD:

31. Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his
colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.

31. Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that use
their tongues, and say, He saith.

31. Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefore will I give
her cup into thine hand.

32. And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of
the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of
the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the
LORD.

32. At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an
adder.

32. Behold, I am against them that prophesy false dreams, saith the
LORD, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and
by their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them: therefore
they shall not profit this people at all, saith the LORD.

32. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou shalt drink of thy sister’s cup
deep and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorn and had in derision; it
containeth much.

33. Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall
utter perverse things.

33. And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask
thee, saying, What is the burden of the LORD? thou shalt then say unto
them, What burden? I will even forsake you, saith the LORD.

33. Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup
of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria.

34. Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the
sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.

34. And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that
shall say, The burden of the LORD, I will even punish that man and his
house.

34. Thou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt break
the sherds thereof, and pluck off thine own breasts: for I have spoken
it, saith the Lord GOD.

35. They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they
have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it
yet again.

35. Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbour, and every one to
his brother, What hath the LORD answered? and, What hath the LORD
spoken?

35. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgotten
me, and cast me behind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdness
and thy whoredoms.

36. And the burden of the LORD shall ye mention no more:
for every man’s word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted the
words of the living God, of the LORD of hosts our God.

36. The LORD said moreover unto me; Son of man, wilt thou judge
Aholah and Aholibah? yea, declare unto them their abominations;

37. Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath the LORD answered
thee? and, What hath the LORD spoken?

37. That they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, and
with their idols have they committed adultery, and have also caused
their sons, whom they bare unto me, to pass for them through the fire,
to devour them.

38. But since ye say, The
burden of the LORD; therefore thus saith the LORD; Because ye say this
word, The burden of the LORD, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye
shall not say, The burden of the LORD;

38. Moreover this they have done unto me: they have defiled my
sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.

39. Therefore, behold, I,
even I, will utterly forget you, and I will forsake you, and the city
that I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence:

39. For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they
came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus have
they done in the midst of mine house.

40. And I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and a
perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.

40. And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to come from far,
unto whom a messenger was sent; and, lo, they came: for whom thou
didst wash thyself, paintedst thy eyes, and deckedst thyself with
ornaments,

41. And satest upon a stately bed, and a table prepared
before it, whereupon thou hast set mine incense and mine oil.

42. And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with
the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness,
which put bracelets upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon their
heads.

43. Then said I unto her that was old in adulteries, Will they now
commit whoredoms with her, and she with them?

44. Yet they went in
unto her, as they go in unto a woman that playeth the harlot: so went
they in unto Aholah and unto Aholibah, the lewd women.

45. And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the manner of
adulteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; because
they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.

46. For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will bring up a company upon
them, and will give them to be removed and spoiled.

47. And the company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them
with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and
burn up their houses with fire.

48. Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all
women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.

49. And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and ye shall
bear the sins of your idols: and ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.