1. Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring
forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve?

1. I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my
tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before
me.

1. At that time Merodachbaladan, the son of
Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: for
he had heard that he had been sick, and was recovered.

1. In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month,
came Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his army against
Jerusalem, and they besieged it.

1. Therefore, thou son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus
saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince
of Meshech and Tubal:

2. Canst thou
number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they
bring forth?

2. I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my
sorrow was stirred.

2. And Hezekiah was glad of them, and shewed them the house of his
precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the
precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that was
found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his
dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.

2. And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the
ninth day of the month, the city was broken up.

2. And I will turn thee back, and leave but
the sixth part of thee, and will cause thee to come up from the north
parts, and will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel:

3. They bow themselves, they bring forth their young
ones, they cast out their sorrows.

3. My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned:
then spake I with my tongue,

3. Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto
him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And
Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from
Babylon.

3. And all the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat in
the middle gate, even Nergalsharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris,
Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, with all the residue of the princes of the
king of Babylon.

3. And I
will smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and will cause thine arrows
to fall out of thy right hand.

4. Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they
go forth, and return not unto them.

4. LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what
it is: that I may know how frail I am.

4. Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah
answered, All that is in mine house have they seen: there is nothing
among my treasures that I have not shewed them.

4. And it came to pass, that when Zedekiah the king of Judah saw
them, and all the men of war, then they fled, and went forth out of
the city by night, by the way of the king’s garden, by the gate
betwixt the two walls: and he went out the way of the plain.

4. Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all thy
bands, and the people that is with thee: I will give thee unto the
ravenous birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be
devoured.

5. Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands
of the wild ass?

5. Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is
as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is
altogether vanity.

Selah.

5. Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:

5. But the Chaldeans’ army pursued after them, and overtook Zedekiah
in the plains of Jericho: and when they had taken him, they brought
him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah in the land of
Hamath, where he gave judgment upon him.

5. Thou shalt fall upon the open field: for I have spoken it, saith
the Lord GOD.

6. Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the
barren land his dwellings.

6. Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are
disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall
gather them.

6. Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that
which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be
carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

6. Then the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah
before his eyes: also the king of Babylon slew all the nobles of
Judah.

6. And I will send a fire on Magog, and among them that dwell
carelessly in the isles: and they shall know that I am the LORD.

7. He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the
crying of the driver.

7. And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.

7. And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt
beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace
of the king of Babylon.

7. Moreover he put out Zedekiah’s eyes, and bound him with chains,
to carry him to Babylon.

7. So will I make my holy name known in the midst of my people
Israel; and I will not let them pollute my holy name any more: and the
heathen shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.

8. The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after
every green thing.

8. Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach
of the foolish.

8. Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD which
thou hast spoken. He said moreover, For there shall be peace and truth
in my days.

8. And the Chaldeans burned the king’s house, and the houses of the
people, with fire, and brake down the walls of Jerusalem.

8. Behold, it is come, and it is done, saith the Lord GOD; this is
the day whereof I have spoken.

9. Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib?

9. I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.

9. Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive
into Babylon the remnant of the people that remained in the city, and
those that fell away, that fell to him, with the rest of the people
that remained.

9. And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and
shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the shields and the
bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears,
and they shall burn them with fire seven years:

10. Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will
he harrow the valleys after thee?

10. Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of
thine hand.

10. But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poor of the
people, which had nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave them
vineyards and fields at the same time.

10. So that they
shall take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the
forests; for they shall burn the weapons with fire: and they shall
spoil those that spoiled them, and rob those that robbed them, saith
the Lord GOD.

11. Wilt thou trust him, because
his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?

11. When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou
makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is
vanity. Selah.

11. Now Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave charge concerning
Jeremiah to Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, saying,

11. And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unto Gog
a place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers on the
east of the sea: and it shall stop the noses of the passengers: and
there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude: and they shall call
it The valley of Hamongog.

12. Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it
into thy barn?

12. Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy
peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as
all my fathers were.

12. Take
him, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do unto him even as
he shall say unto thee.

12. And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of them,
that they may cleanse the land.

13. Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks?
or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?

13. O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and
be no more.

13. So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushasban,
Rabsaris, and Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, and all the king of Babylon’s
princes;

13. Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be
to them a renown the day that I shall be glorified, saith the Lord
GOD.

14. Which leaveth her eggs
in the earth, and warmeth them in dust,

14. Even they sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court of
the prison, and committed him unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son
of Shaphan, that he should carry him home: so he dwelt among the
people.

14. And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passing
through the land to bury with the passengers those that remain upon
the face of the earth, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months
shall they search.

15. And forgetteth that the
foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them.

15. Now the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, while he was shut
up in the court of the prison, saying,

15. And the passengers that pass through the land, when any seeth a
man’s bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, till the buriers have
buried it in the valley of Hamongog.

16. She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not
hers: her labour is in vain without fear;

16. Go and speak to
Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the
God of Israel; Behold, I will bring my words upon this city for evil,
and not for good; and they shall be accomplished in that day before
thee.

16. And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah. Thus shall they
cleanse the land.

17. Because God hath
deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding.

17. But I will deliver thee in that day, saith the LORD: and thou
shalt not be given into the hand of the men of whom thou art afraid.

17. And, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; Speak unto every
feathered fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves,
and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I do
sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of
Israel, that ye may eat flesh, and drink blood.

18. What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse
and his rider.

18. For I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by the
sword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto thee: because thou hast
put thy trust in me, saith the LORD.

18. Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the
princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks,
all of them fatlings of Bashan.

19. Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck
with thunder?

19. And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be
drunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.

20. Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the
glory of his nostrils is terrible.

20. Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots,
with mighty men, and with all men of war, saith the Lord GOD.

21. He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth
on to meet the armed men.

21. And I will set my glory among the heathen, and all the heathen
shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have
laid upon them.

22. He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he
back from the sword.

22. So the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God
from that day and forward.

23. The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the
shield.

23. And the heathen shall know that the house of Israel went into
captivity for their iniquity: because they trespassed against me,
therefore hid I my face from them, and gave them into the hand of
their enemies: so fell they all by the sword.

24. He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither
believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.

24. According to their uncleanness and according to their
transgressions have I done unto them, and hid my face from them.

25. He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle
afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.

25. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Now will I bring again the
captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and
will be jealous for my holy name;

26. Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward
the south?

26. After that they have borne
their shame, and all their trespasses whereby they have trespassed
against me, when they dwelt safely in their land, and none made them
afraid.

27. Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her
nest on high?

27. When I have brought them again from the people, and gathered
them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sanctified in them in the
sight of many nations;

28. She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the
crag of the rock, and the strong place.

28. Then shall they know that I am the LORD
their God, which caused them to be led into captivity among the
heathen: but I have gathered them unto their own land, and have left
none of them any more there.

29. From thence she seeketh the prey, and her eyes behold afar off.

29. Neither will I hide my face any more from them: for I have
poured out my spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.

30. Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain are,
there is she.