1. Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness
of God endureth continually.

1. Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful
garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no
more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.

1. Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

2. The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working
deceitfully.

2. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem:
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.

2. And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD, according
to all that Jehoiakim had done.

3. Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak
righteousness. Selah.

3. For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and
ye shall be redeemed without money.

3. For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem
and Judah, till he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah
rebelled against the king of Babylon.

4. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.

4. For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime into
Egypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.

4. And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth
month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and pitched
against it, and built forts against it round about.

5. God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee
away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of
the land of the living. Selah.

5. Now therefore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my people
is taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl,
saith the LORD; and my name continually every day is blasphemed.

5. So the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.

6. The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:

6. Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall know
in that day that I am he that doth speak: behold, it is I.

6. And in the fourth month, in the ninth day of the month, the
famine was sore in the city, so that there was no bread for the people
of the land.

7. Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted
in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his
wickedness.

7. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy
God reigneth!

7. Then the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled, and
went forth out of the city by night by the way of the gate between the
two walls, which was by the king’s garden; (now the Chaldeans were by
the city round about:) and they went by the way of the plain.

8. But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in
the mercy of God for ever and ever.

8. Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the
voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when
the LORD shall bring again Zion.

8. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and
overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was
scattered from him.

9. I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I
will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.

9. Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of
Jerusalem: for the LORD hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed
Jerusalem.

9. Then they took the king, and carried him up unto the king of
Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; where he gave judgment upon
him.

10. The LORD hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our
God.

10. And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah before his
eyes: he slew also all the princes of Judah in Riblah.

11. Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean
thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the
vessels of the LORD.

11. Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Babylon
bound him in chains, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prison
till the day of his death.

12. For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for the
LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.

12. Now in the fifth month, in the tenth day of the month, which was
the nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, came
Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, which served the king of Babylon,
into Jerusalem,

13. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and
extolled, and be very high.

13. And burned the house of the LORD, and the king’s
house; and all the houses of Jerusalem, and all the houses of the
great men, burned he with fire:

14. As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred more
than any man, and his form more than the sons of men:

14. And all the army of the
Chaldeans, that were with the captain of the guard, brake down all the
walls of Jerusalem round about.

15. So shall
he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him:
for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that which
they had not heard shall they consider.

15. Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive
certain of the poor of the people, and the residue of the people that
remained in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to the king
of Babylon, and the rest of the multitude.

16. But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left certain of the
poor of the land for vinedressers and for husbandmen.

17. Also the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD,
and the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD,
the Chaldeans brake, and carried all the brass of them to Babylon.

18. The caldrons also, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the
bowls, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith they
ministered, took they away.

19. And the basons, and the firepans, and the bowls, and the
caldrons, and the candlesticks, and the spoons, and the cups; that
which was of gold in gold, and that which was of silver in silver,
took the captain of the guard away.

20. The two pillars, one sea, and twelve brasen bulls that were
under the bases, which king Solomon had made in the house of the LORD:
the brass of all these vessels was without weight.

21. And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar was
eighteen cubits; and a fillet of twelve cubits did compass it; and the
thickness thereof was four fingers: it was hollow.

22. And a chapiter of brass was upon it; and the height of one
chapiter was five cubits, with network and pomegranates upon the
chapiters round about, all of brass. The second pillar also and the
pomegranates were like unto these.

23. And there were ninety and six pomegranates on a side; and all
the pomegranates upon the network were an hundred round about.

24. And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and
Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door:

25. He took also out of the city an eunuch, which had the charge of the
men of war; and seven men of them that were near the king’s person,
which were found in the city; and the principal scribe of the host,
who mustered the people of the land; and threescore men of the people
of the land, that were found in the midst of the city.

26. So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought
them to the king of Babylon to Riblah.

27. And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death in
Riblah in the land of Hamath. Thus Judah was carried away captive out
of his own land.

28. This is the people whom Nebuchadrezzar carried away captive: in
the seventh year three thousand Jews and three and twenty:

29. In
the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar he carried away captive from
Jerusalem eight hundred thirty and two persons:

30. In the three and
twentieth year of Nebuchadrezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard
carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty and five persons:
all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.

31. And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the
captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, in the
five and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Babylon
in the first year of his reign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king
of Judah, and brought him forth out of prison.

32. And spake kindly unto him, and set his throne above the throne
of the kings that were with him in Babylon,

33. And changed his
prison garments: and he did continually eat bread before him all the
days of his life.

34. And for his diet, there was a continual diet given him of the
king of Babylon, every day a portion until the day of his death, all
the days of his life.




The Lamentations of Jeremiah