1. Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my
supplication.

1. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that
hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk
without money and without price.

2. Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a
noise;

2. Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your
labour for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, and
eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in
fatness.

3. Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of
the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.

3. Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall
live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure
mercies of David.

4. My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are
fallen upon me.

4. Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leader
and commander to the people.

5. Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath
overwhelmed me.

5. Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and
nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the LORD thy
God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath glorified thee.

6. And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly
away, and be at rest.

6. Seek ye the LORD while he may be found, call ye upon him while he
is near:

7. Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness.
Selah.

7. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man
his thoughts: and let him return unto the LORD, and he will have mercy
upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

8. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.

8. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my
ways, saith the LORD.

9. Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen
violence and strife in the city.

9. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways
higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.

10. Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief
also and sorrow are in the midst of it.

10. For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and
returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring
forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the
eater:

11. Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not
from her streets.

11. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it
shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I
please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.

12. For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have
borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself
against me; then I would have hid myself from him:

12. For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the
mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and
all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.

13. But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine
acquaintance.

13. Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of
the brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the LORD
for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.

14. We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God
in company.

15. Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell:
for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

16. As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

17. Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud:
and he shall hear my voice.

18. He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was
against me: for there were many with me.

19. God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old.

Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

20. He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with
him: he hath broken his covenant.

21. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in
his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.

22. Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he
shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.

23. But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of
destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their
days; but I will trust in thee.