1. Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and
kissed him, and said, Is it not because the LORD hath anointed thee to
be captain over his inheritance?

1. And it came to pass after this, that the king of the children of
Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.

1. And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon
concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard
questions.

1. And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, and
sent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to
them that brought up Ahab’s children, saying,

2. When thou art departed from me
to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel’s sepulchre in the
border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses
which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left
the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do
for my son?

2. Then said David, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, as his father shewed kindness unto me. And David sent to
comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David’s
servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.

2. And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels
that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones: and when
she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her
heart.

2. Now as soon as this
letter cometh to you, seeing your master’s sons are with you, and
there are with you chariots and horses, a fenced city also, and
armour;

3. Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou
shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men
going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another
carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:

3. And the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their
lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath
sent comforters unto thee? hath not David rather sent his servants
unto thee, to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?

3. And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not any thing
hid from the king, which he told her not.

3. Look even out the best and meetest of your master’s sons,
and set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.

4. And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread;
which thou shalt receive of their hands.

4. Wherefore Hanun took David’s servants, and shaved off the one
half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even
to their buttocks, and sent them away.

4. And when the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon’s wisdom, and
the house that he had built,

4. But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, two kings
stood not before him: how then shall we stand?

5. After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the
garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art
come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets
coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret, and a
pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:

5. When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them, because the
men were greatly ashamed: and the king said, Tarry at Jericho until
your beards be grown, and then return.

5. And the meat of his table, and the
sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and
their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up
unto the house of the LORD; there was no more spirit in her.

5. And he that was
over the house, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and
the bringers up of the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are thy
servants, and will do all that thou shalt bid us; we will not make any
king: do thou that which is good in thine eyes.

6. And the
Spirit of the LORD will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with
them, and shalt be turned into another man.

6. And when the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David,
the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrehob and the
Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand footmen, and of king Maacah a
thousand men, and of Ishtob twelve thousand men.

6. And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in
mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom.

6. Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If ye be
mine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of the
men your master’s sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to morrow this
time. Now the king’s sons, being seventy persons, were with the great
men of the city, which brought them up.

7. And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do
as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.

7. And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mighty men.

7. Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had
seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me: thy wisdom and
prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard.

7. And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took
the king’s sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads in
baskets, and sent him them to Jezreel.

8. And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will
come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice
sacrifices of peace offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, till I
come to thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.

8. And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
at the entering in of the gate: and the Syrians of Zoba, and of Rehob,
and Ishtob, and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.

8. Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom.

8. And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have
brought the heads of the king’s sons. And he said, Lay ye them in two
heaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.

9. And it was so, that when he had turned his back to go from
Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass
that day.

9. When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before
and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians:

9. Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee, to set thee
on the throne of Israel: because the LORD loved Israel for ever,
therefore made he thee king, to do judgment and justice.

9. And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood,
and said to all the people, Ye be righteous: behold, I conspired
against my master, and slew him: but who slew all these?

10. And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of
prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he
prophesied among them.

10. And the rest of the people he
delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother, that he might put them
in array against the children of Ammon.

10. And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and
of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more
such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to
king Solomon.

10. Know
now that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of the word of the
LORD, which the LORD spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the LORD
hath done that which he spake by his servant Elijah.

11. And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that,
behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to
another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also
among the prophets?

11. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will come and help thee.

11. And the navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir,
brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees, and precious
stones.

11. So Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel,
and all his great men, and his kinsfolks, and his priests, until he
left him none remaining.

12. And one of the same place answered and
said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul
also among the prophets?

12. Be of good courage, and let us play the men for our people, and
for the cities of our God: and the LORD do that which seemeth him
good.

12. And the king made of the almug trees pillars for the house of
the LORD, and for the king’s house, harps also and psalteries for
singers: there came no such almug trees, nor were seen unto this day.

12. And he arose and departed, and came to Samaria. And as he was at
the shearing house in the way,

13. And when he had made an end of
prophesying, he came to the high place.

13. And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him, unto the
battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him.

13. And king Solomon gave unto the queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that which Solomon gave her of his royal
bounty.

So she turned and went to her own country, she and her servants.

13. Jehu met with the brethren of
Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We are
the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of the
king and the children of the queen.

14. And Saul’s uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went
ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no
where, we came to Samuel.

14. And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,
then fled they also before Abishai, and entered into the city. So Joab
returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem.

14. Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six
hundred threescore and six talents of gold,

14. And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and slew
them at the pit of the shearing house, even two and forty men; neither
left he any of them.

15. And Saul’s uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said
unto you.

15. And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel,
they gathered themselves together.

15. Beside that he had
of the merchantmen, and of the traffick of the spice merchants, and of
all the kings of Arabia, and of the governors of the country.

15. And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son
of Rechab coming to meet him: and he saluted him, and said to him, Is
thine heart right, as my heart is with thy heart? And Jehonadab
answered, It is. If it be, give me thine hand. And he gave him his
hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.

16. And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses
were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he
told him not.

16. And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond
the river: and they came to Helam; and Shobach the captain of the host
of Hadarezer went before them.

16. And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of gold went to one target.

16. And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So they
made him ride in his chariot.

17. And Samuel called the people together unto the LORD to Mizpeh;

17. And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together, and
passed over Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves
in array against David, and fought with him.

17. And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pound of
gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the
forest of Lebanon.

17. And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Ahab
in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the
LORD, which he spake to Elijah.

18. And said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the LORD God of
Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the
hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of
them that oppressed you:

18. And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew the men of
seven hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty thousand horsemen,
and smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there.

18. Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it
with the best gold.

18. And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them,
Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.

19. And ye have this day rejected your God,
who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your
tribulations; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us.
Now therefore present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes, and
by your thousands.

19. And when all the kings that were servants to Hadarezer saw that
they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and
served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon any
more.

19. The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round
behind: and there were stays on either side on the place of the seat,
and two lions stood beside the stays.

19. Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his
servants, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a great
sacrifice to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall not
live. But Jehu did it in subtilty, to the intent that he might destroy
the worshippers of Baal.

20. And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come
near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.

20. And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other
upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom.

20. And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal. And they
proclaimed it.

21. When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their
families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was
taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.

21. And all king Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all
the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold;
none were of silver: it was nothing accounted of in the days of
Solomon.

21. And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of
Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And they
came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from one
end to another.

22. Therefore they enquired of the LORD further, if the man should
yet come thither. And the LORD answered, Behold he hath hid himself
among the stuff.

22. For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of
Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tharshish, bringing gold,
and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

22. And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth
vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forth
vestments.

23. And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the
people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and
upward.

23. So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches
and for wisdom.

23. And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house
of Baal, and said unto the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look that
there be here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but the
worshippers of Baal only.

24. And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom the LORD hath
chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the
people shouted, and said, God save the king.

24. And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which
God had put in his heart.

24. And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings,
Jehu appointed fourscore men without, and said, If any of the men whom
I have brought into your hands escape, he that letteth him go, his
life shall be for the life of him.

25. Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote
it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD. And Samuel sent all the
people away, every man to his house.

25. And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and
vessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses, and
mules, a rate year by year.

25. And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering
the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains,
Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote them with
the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out,
and went to the city of the house of Baal.

26. And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a
band of men, whose hearts God had touched.

26. And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had
a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen,
whom he bestowed in the cities for chariots, and with the king at
Jerusalem.

26. And they brought forth the images out of the house of Baal, and
burned them.

27. But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And
they despised him, and brought no presents. But he held his peace.

27. And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and
cedars made he to be as the sycomore trees that are in the vale, for
abundance.

27. And they brake down the image of Baal, and brake down the house
of Baal, and made it a draught house unto this day.

28. And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the
king’s merchants received the linen yarn at a price.

28. Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.

29. And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred
shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty: and so for
all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they
bring them out by their means.

29. Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit, the golden
calves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dan.

30. And the LORD said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in
executing that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the
house of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children of
the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.

31. But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the LORD God of
Israel with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins of
Jeroboam, which made Israel to sin.

32. In those days the LORD began to cut Israel short: and Hazael
smote them in all the coasts of Israel;

33. From Jordan eastward,
all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the
Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead and
Bashan.

34. Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all
his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?

35. And Jehu slept with his fathers: and they
buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.

36. And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty
and eight years.