1. Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against
Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a
covenant with us, and we will serve thee.

1. And it came to pass, after the year was expired, at the time when
kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab, and his servants with
him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and
besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.

1. But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the
daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites,
Zidonians, and Hittites:

1. And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.

2. And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I
make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes,
and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.

2. And it came to pass in an eveningtide, that David arose from off
his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king’s house: and from the
roof he saw a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful
to look upon.

2. Of the nations concerning which the LORD
said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither
shall they come in unto you: for surely they will turn away your heart
after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love.

2. But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah,
took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s
sons which were slain; and they hid him, even him and his nurse, in
the bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.

3. And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days’
respite, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel:
and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.

3. And David sent and enquired after the woman. And one said, Is not
this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?

3. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred
concubines: and his wives turned away his heart.

3. And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. And
Athaliah did reign over the land.

4. Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings
in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices,
and wept.

4. And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto
him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from her uncleanness:
and she returned unto her house.

4. For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned
away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with
the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.

4. And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over
hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to him
into the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and took an
oath of them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king’s son.

5. And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul
said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the
tidings of the men of Jabesh.

5. And the woman conceived, and sent and told David, and said, I am
with child.

5. For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians,
and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.

5. And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall
do; A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even be
keepers of the watch of the king’s house;

6. And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings,
and his anger was kindled greatly.

6. And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And
Joab sent Uriah to David.

6. And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and went not fully
after the LORD, as did David his father.

6. And a third part shall
be at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard:
so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down.

7. And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent
them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hands of messengers,
saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so
shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of the LORD fell on the
people, and they came out with one consent.

7. And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab
did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered.

7. Then did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination
of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the
abomination of the children of Ammon.

7. And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even they
shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

8. And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were
three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.

8. And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet.
And Uriah departed out of the king’s house, and there followed him a
mess of meat from the king.

8. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt
incense and sacrificed unto their gods.

8. And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his
weapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let him be
slain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he cometh in.

9. And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say
unto the men of Jabeshgilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot,
ye shall have help. And the messengers came and shewed it to the men
of Jabesh; and they were glad.

9. But Uriah slept at the door of the king’s house with all the
servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.

9. And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned
from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice,

9. And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things
that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men
that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out on
the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.

10. Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out
unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.

10. And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto
his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey?
why then didst thou not go down unto thine house?

10. And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go
after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded.

10. And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give king
David’s spears and shields, that were in the temple of the LORD.

11. And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three
companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning
watch, and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it came
to pass, that they which remained were scattered, so that two of them
were not left together.

11. And Uriah
said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in tents; and
my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open
fields; shall I then go into mine house, to eat and to drink, and to
lie with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not
do this thing.

11. Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done
of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I
have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and
will give it to thy servant.

11. And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand,
round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left
corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple.

12. And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul
reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.

12. And David said to Uriah, Tarry here to day also, and to morrow I
will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the
morrow.

12. Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy
father’s sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son.

12. And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown upon him,
and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him;
and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king.

13. And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day:
for to day the LORD hath wrought salvation in Israel.

13. And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him;
and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with
the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house.

13. Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one
tribe to thy son for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake
which I have chosen.

13. And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the
people, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.

14. Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal,
and renew the kingdom there.

14. And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to
Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.

14. And the LORD stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the
Edomite: he was of the king’s seed in Edom.

14. And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the
manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and all
the people of the land rejoiced, and blew with trumpets: and Athaliah
rent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.

15. And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king
before the LORD in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of
peace offerings before the LORD; and there Saul and all the men of
Israel rejoiced greatly.

15. And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the
forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may
be smitten, and die.

15. For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the
captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain, after he had
smitten every male in Edom;

15. But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds,
the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth without
the ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For the
priest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the LORD.

16. And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he
assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were.

16. (For six months did Joab remain
there with all Israel, until he had cut off every male in Edom:)

16. And they laid hands on her; and she went by the way by the which
the horses came into the king’s house: and there was she slain.

17. And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and
there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and Uriah the
Hittite died also.

17. That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with
him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child.

17. And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and
the people, that they should be the LORD’s people; between the king
also and the people.

18. Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;

18. And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took
men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king
of Egypt; which gave him an house, and appointed him victuals, and
gave him land.

18. And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and
brake it down; his altars and his images brake they in pieces
thoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And
the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD.

19. And charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of
telling the matters of the war unto the king,

19. And Hadad found great favour in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he
gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes
the queen.

19. And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captains, and the
guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king
from the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the
guard to the king’s house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.

20. And if so be that
the king’s wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore approached ye
so nigh unto the city when ye did fight? knew ye not that they would
shoot from the wall?

20. And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom
Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house: and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s
household among the sons of Pharaoh.

20. And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was in
quiet: and they slew Athaliah with the sword beside the king’s house.

21. Who smote Abimelech the son of
Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him
from the wall, that he died in Thebez? why went ye nigh the wall? then
say thou, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.

21. And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers,
and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh,
Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.

21. Seven years old was Jehoash when he began to reign.

22. So the messenger went, and came and shewed David all that Joab
had sent him for.

22. Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me,
that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he
answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go in any wise.

23. And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed
against us, and came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them
even unto the entering of the gate.

23. And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of
Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah:

24. And the shooters shot from off the wall upon thy servants; and
some of the king’s servants be dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite
is dead also.

24. And
he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a band, when David
slew them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and
reigned in Damascus.

25. Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto
Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one
as well as another: make thy battle more strong against the city, and
overthrow it: and encourage thou him.

25. And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon,
beside the mischief that Hadad did: and he abhorred Israel, and
reigned over Syria.

26. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was
dead, she mourned for her husband.

26. And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda,
Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow woman, even
he lifted up his hand against the king.

27. And when the mourning was past, David sent and fetched her to
his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing
that David had done displeased the LORD.

27. And this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the
king: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breaches of the city of
David his father.

28. And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valour: and Solomon
seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over
all the charge of the house of Joseph.

29. And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of
Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way;
and he had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in
the field:

30. And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him,
and rent it in twelve pieces:

31. And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee
ten pieces: for thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, Behold, I will
rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes
to thee:

32. (But he shall have one tribe for my servant David’s
sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake, the city which I have chosen out of
all the tribes of Israel:)

33. Because that they have forsaken me,
and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh
the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon,
and have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in mine
eyes, and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as did David his
father.

34. Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand: but I
will make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant’s
sake, whom I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes:

35. But I will take the kingdom out of his son’s hand, and will give
it unto thee, even ten tribes.

36. And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my servant
may have a light alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have
chosen me to put my name there.

37. And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that
thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.

38. And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command
thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that is right in my sight, to
keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did; that I
will be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built for David,
and will give Israel unto thee.

39. And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not for ever.

40. Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose,
and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt
until the death of Solomon.

41. And the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and
his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?

42. And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel
was forty years.

43. And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.