1. In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the
tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto
that day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the
tribes of Israel.

1. And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto
Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and
Jonathan loved him as his own soul.

1. And David numbered the people that were with him, and set
captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds over them.

1. And it came to pass after many days, that the word of the LORD
came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto Ahab;
and I will send rain upon the earth.

2. And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their
coasts, men of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the
land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land:
who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they
lodged there.

2. And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to
his father’s house.

2. And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of
Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah,
Joab’s brother, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite.
And the king said unto the people, I will surely go forth with you
myself also.

2. And Elijah went to shew himself unto Ahab. And there was a sore
famine in Samaria.

3. When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the
young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him,
Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what
hast thou here?

3. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as
his own soul.

3. But the people answered, Thou shalt not go forth: for if we flee
away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they
care for us: but now thou art worth ten thousand of us: therefore now
it is better that thou succour us out of the city.

3. And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house.
(Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly:

4. And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth
Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.

4. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and
gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow,
and to his girdle.

4. And the king said unto them, What seemeth you best I will do. And
the king stood by the gate side, and all the people came out by
hundreds and by thousands.

4. For it was so, when Jezebel
cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took an hundred
prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and
water.)

5. And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that
we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.

5. And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved
himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was
accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of
Saul’s servants.

5. And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal
gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom. And all the
people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning
Absalom.

5. And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go into the land, unto all
fountains of water, and unto all brooks: peradventure we may find
grass to save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the
beasts.

6. And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before the LORD is
your way wherein ye go.

6. And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from
the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all cities
of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with
joy, and with instruments of musick.

6. So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the
battle was in the wood of Ephraim;

6. So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab
went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.

7. Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people
that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of the
Zidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land,
that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the
Zidonians, and had no business with any man.

7. And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul
hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.

7. Where the people of Israel
were slain before the servants of David, and there was there a great
slaughter that day of twenty thousand men.

7. And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah met him: and he
knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art thou that my lord
Elijah?

8. And they came unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their
brethren said unto them, What say ye?

8. And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he
said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have
ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?

8. For the battle was there scattered over the face of all the
country: and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword
devoured.

8. And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy lord, Behold,
Elijah is here.

9. And they said, Arise, that
we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it
is very good: and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter to
possess the land.

9. And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.

9. And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a
mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his
head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven
and the earth; and the mule that was under him went away.

9. And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy
servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?

10. When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large
land: for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no
want of any thing that is in the earth.

10. And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God
came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David
played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in
Saul’s hand.

10. And a certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw
Absalom hanged in an oak.

10. As the LORD thy God
liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent
to seek thee: and when they said, He is not there; he took an oath of
the kingdom and nation, that they found thee not.

11. And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out of
Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of
war.

11. And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even
to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

11. And Joab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou
sawest him, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? and
I would have given thee ten shekels of silver, and a girdle.

11. And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here.

12. And they went up, and pitched in Kirjathjearim, in Judah:
wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, it
is behind Kirjathjearim.

12. And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him, and
was departed from Saul.

12. And the man said unto Joab, Though I should receive a thousand
shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth mine hand
against the king’s son: for in our hearing the king charged thee and
Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man
Absalom.

12. And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that
the Spirit of the LORD shall carry thee whither I know not; and so
when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he shall slay me:
but I thy servant fear the LORD from my youth.

13. And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the
house of Micah.

13. Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain
over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.

13. Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life:
for there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest
have set thyself against me.

13. Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the
prophets of the LORD, how I hid an hundred men of the LORD’s prophets
by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?

14. Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of
Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these
houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image?
now therefore consider what ye have to do.

14. And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and the LORD
was with him.

14. Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took
three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom,
while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.

14. And now
thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here: and he shall
slay me.

15. And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of the young
man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.

15. Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he
was afraid of him.

15. And ten young men that bare Joab’s armour compassed about and
smote Absalom, and slew him.

15. And Elijah said, As the LORD of hosts liveth, before whom I
stand, I will surely shew myself unto him to day.

16. And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war,
which were of the children of Dan, stood by the entering of the gate.

16. But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and
came in before them.

16. And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing
after Israel: for Joab held back the people.

16. So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab went to
meet Elijah.

17. And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came
in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the
teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood in the entering
of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons
of war.

17. And Saul said to David, Behold my elder daughter Merab, her will
I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the LORD’s
battles.

For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the
Philistines be upon him.

17. And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the
wood, and laid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel
fled every one to his tent.

17. And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto
him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?

18. And these went into Micah’s house, and fetched the carved image,
the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the
priest unto them, What do ye?

18. And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my
father’s family in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king?

18. Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself
a pillar, which is in the king’s dale: for he said, I have no son to
keep my name in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own
name: and it is called unto this day, Absalom’s place.

18. And he answered, I have
not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father’s house, in that ye have
forsaken the commandments of the LORD, and thou hast followed Baalim.

19. And they said unto him, Hold thy
peace, lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a
father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the
house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family
in Israel?

19. But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul’s daughter
should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the
Meholathite to wife.

19. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear the
king tidings, how that the LORD hath avenged him of his enemies.

19. Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto mount
Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the
prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel’s table.

20. And the priest’s heart was glad, and he took the
ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst
of the people.

20. And Michal Saul’s daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and
the thing pleased him.

20. And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day,
but thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear
no tidings, because the king’s son is dead.

20. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the
prophets together unto mount Carmel.

21. So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the
cattle and the carriage before them.

21. And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to
him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him.
Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in
the one of the twain.

21. Then said Joab to Cushi, Go tell the king what thou hast seen.
And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran.

21. And Elijah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye
between two opinions? if the LORD be God, follow him: but if Baal,
then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.

22. And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men
that were in the houses near to Micah’s house were gathered together,
and overtook the children of Dan.

22. And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David
secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his
servants love thee: now therefore be the king’s son in law.

22. Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But
howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said,
Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings
ready?

22. Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a
prophet of the LORD; but Baal’s prophets are four hundred and fifty
men.

23. And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their
faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with
such a company?

23. And Saul’s servants spake those words in the ears of David. And
David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king’s son in law,
seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?

23. But howsoever, said he, let me run. And he said unto
him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran Cushi.

23. Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one
bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, and
put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on
wood, and put no fire under:

24. And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I
made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and
what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?

24. And the
servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.

24. And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up to
the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and
looked, and behold a man running alone.

24. And call ye on the name of your
gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD: and the God that
answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and
said, It is well spoken.

25. And the
children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us,
lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the
lives of thy household.

25. And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not
any dowry, but an hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged
of the king’s enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand
of the Philistines.

25. And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If
he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and
drew near.

25. And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one
bullock for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call
on the name of your gods, but put no fire under.

26. And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that
they were too strong for him, he turned and went back unto his house.

26. And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David
well to be the king’s son in law: and the days were not expired.

26. And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman
called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone.
And the king said, He also bringeth tidings.

26. And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed
it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon,
saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that
answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.

27. And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest
which he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quiet
and secure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt
the city with fire.

27. Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the
Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and
they gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king’s
son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.

27. And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost
is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, He
is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.

27. And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said,
Cry aloud: for he is a god; either he is talking, or he is pursuing,
or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be
awaked.

28. And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Zidon, and
they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth
by Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.

28. And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that
Michal Saul’s daughter loved him.

28. And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he
fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said,
Blessed be the LORD thy God, which hath delivered up the men that
lifted up their hand against my lord the king.

28. And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with
knives and lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them.

29. And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan
their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city
was Laish at the first.

29. And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became
David’s enemy continually.

29. And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz
answered, When Joab sent the king’s servant, and me thy servant, I saw
a great tumult, but I knew not what it was.

29. And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied
until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there
was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.

30. And the children of Dan set up the graven image: and Jonathan,
the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests
to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.

30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to
pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely
than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.

30. And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here. And he
turned aside, and stood still.

30. And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all
the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD
that was broken down.

31. And they set them up Micah’s graven image, which he made, all
the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.

31. And, behold, Cushi came; and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord the
king: for the LORD hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up
against thee.

31. And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the
tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the LORD came,
saying, Israel shall be thy name:

32. And the king said unto Cushi, Is the young man Absalom safe? And
Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise
against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.

32. And with the stones he built
an altar in the name of the LORD: and he made a trench about the
altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.

33. And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the
gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my
son, my son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son,
my son!

33. And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and
laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pour
it on the burnt sacrifice, and on the wood.

34. And he said, Do it the second time. And they did it the second
time.

And he said, Do it the third time. And they did it the third time.

35. And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the
trench also with water.

36. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening
sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, LORD God of
Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art
God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all
these things at thy word.

37. Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may know that thou
art the LORD God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again.

38. Then the fire of the LORD fell, and consumed the burnt
sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up
the water that was in the trench.

39. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and
they said, The LORD, he is the God; the LORD, he is the God.

40. And Elijah said unto them, Take the prophets of Baal; let not
one of them escape. And they took them: and Elijah brought them down
to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.

41. And Elijah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there
is a sound of abundance of rain.

42. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the
top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his
face between his knees,

43. And said to his servant, Go up now, look
toward the sea. And he went up, and looked, and said, There is
nothing. And he said, Go again seven times.

44. And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold,
there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man’s hand. And he
said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down
that the rain stop thee not.

45. And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black
with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and
went to Jezreel.

46. And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah; and he girded up his
loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.