1. David therefore
departed thence, and escaped to the cave Adullam: and when his
brethren and all his father’s house heard it, they went down thither
to him.

1. And David spake unto the LORD the words of this song in the day
that the LORD had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies,
and out of the hand of Saul:

1. And they continued three years without war between Syria and
Israel.

2. And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in
debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto
him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about
four hundred men.

2. And he said, The LORD is my rock,
and my fortress, and my deliverer;

2. And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king
of Judah came down to the king of Israel.

3. And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the
king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth,
and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.

3. The God of my rock; in him
will I trust: he is my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high
tower, and my refuge, my saviour; thou savest me from violence.

3. And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that
Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the
hand of the king of Syria?

4. And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with
him all the while that David was in the hold.

4. I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I
be saved from mine enemies.

4. And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt
thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the
king of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my horses
as thy horses.

5. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold;
depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and
came into the forest of Hareth.

5. When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid;

5. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray
thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

6. When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were
with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his
spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;)

6. The sorrows of hell compassed me about; the
snares of death prevented me;

6. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about
four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramothgilead
to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the LORD
shall deliver it into the hand of the king.

7. Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye
Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and
vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands, and captains of
hundreds;

7. In my distress I called upon the
LORD, and cried to my God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple,
and my cry did enter into his ears.

7. And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?

8. That all of you have conspired against me, and there is
none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with the son of
Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or sheweth unto
me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait,
as at this day?

8. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven
moved and shook, because he was wroth.

8. And the king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micaiah the son of Imlah,
by whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he doth not
prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not
the king say so.

9. Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set
over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to
Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.

9. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

9. Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Hasten
hither Micaiah the son of Imlah.

10. And he enquired of the LORD for him, and gave him victuals, and
gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.

10. He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under
his feet.

10. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat
each on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the
entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied
before them.

11. Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of
Ahitub, and all his father’s house, the priests that were in Nob: and
they came all of them to the king.

11. And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: and he was seen upon the
wings of the wind.

11. And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron: and he
said, Thus saith the LORD, With these shalt thou push the Syrians,
until thou have consumed them.

12. And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered,
Here I am, my lord.

12. And he made darkness pavilions round about him, dark waters, and
thick clouds of the skies.

12. And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the
king’s hand.

13. And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou
and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword,
and hast enquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to
lie in wait, as at this day?

13. Through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled.

13. And the messenger that was gone to call Micaiah spake unto him,
saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good unto the
king with one mouth: let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of
one of them, and speak that which is good.

14. Then Ahimelech answered the king,
and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David,
which is the king’s son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is
honourable in thine house?

14. The LORD thundered from heaven, and the most High uttered his
voice.

14. And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, what the LORD saith unto
me, that will I speak.

15. Did I then begin to enquire of God
for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing unto his
servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knew
nothing of all this, less or more.

15. And he sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and
discomfited them.

15. So he came to the king. And the king said unto him, Micaiah,
shall we go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And
he answered him, Go, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into
the hand of the king.

16. And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and
all thy father’s house.

16. And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the
world were discovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the blast of
the breath of his nostrils.

16. And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the
LORD?

17. And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn,
and slay the priests of the LORD: because their hand also is with
David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not shew it to me.
But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall
upon the priests of the LORD.

17. He sent from above, he took me; he drew me out of many waters;

17. And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills,
as sheep that have not a shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no
master: let them return every man to his house in peace.

18. And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests.
And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on
that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.

18. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

18. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell
thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil?

19. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the
sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen, and
asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.

19. They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

19. And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD
sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on
his right hand and on his left.

20. And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named
Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.

20. He brought me forth also into a large place: he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

20. And the LORD said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up
and fall at Ramothgilead? And one said on this manner, and another
said on that manner.

21. And Abiathar shewed David that Saul had slain the LORD’s
priests.

21. The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness: according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

21. And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will persuade him.

22. And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the
Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned
the death of all the persons of thy father’s house.

22. For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

22. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go
forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
And he said, Thou shalt persuade him, and prevail also: go forth, and
do so.

23. Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life
seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safeguard.

23. For all his judgments were before me: and as for his statutes, I
did not depart from them.

23. Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil
concerning thee.

24. I was also upright before him, and have kept myself from mine
iniquity.

24. But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah
on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me
to speak unto thee?

25. Therefore the LORD hath recompensed me according to my
righteousness; according to my cleanness in his eye sight.

25. And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in
that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

26. With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful, and with the
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright.

26. And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back
unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;

27. With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself unsavoury.

27. And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed
him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I
come in peace.

28. And the afflicted people thou wilt save: but thine eyes are upon
the haughty, that thou mayest bring them down.

28. And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath
not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you.

29. For thou art my lamp, O LORD: and the LORD will lighten my
darkness.

29. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

30. For by thee I have run through a troop: by my God have I leaped
over a wall.

30. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the
king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.

31. As for God, his way is perfect; the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all them that trust in him.

31. But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that
had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor
great, save only with the king of Israel.

32. For who is God, save the LORD? and who is a rock, save our God?

32. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they
turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out.

33. God is my strength and power: and he maketh my way perfect.

33. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived
that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from
pursuing him.

34. He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet: and setteth me upon my high
places.

34. And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the
driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host;
for I am wounded.

35. He teacheth my hands to war; so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

35. And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in
his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran
out of the wound into the midst of the chariot.

36. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
gentleness hath made me great.

36. And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the
going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to
his own country.

37. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me; so that my feet did not
slip.

37. So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried
the king in Samaria.

38. I have pursued mine enemies, and destroyed them; and turned not
again until I had consumed them.

38. And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs
licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the
word of the LORD which he spake.

39. And I have consumed them, and wounded them, that they could not
arise: yea, they are fallen under my feet.

39. Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the
ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

40. For thou hast girded me with strength to battle: them that rose
up against me hast thou subdued under me.

40. So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in
his stead.

41. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might
destroy them that hate me.

41. And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the
fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.

42. They looked, but there was none to save; even unto the LORD, but
he answered them not.

42. Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to
reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his
mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

43. Then did I beat them as small as the dust of the earth, I did
stamp them as the mire of the street, and did spread them abroad.

43. And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not
aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD:
nevertheless the high places were not taken away; for the people
offered and burnt incense yet in the high places.

44. Thou also hast delivered me from the strivings of my people,
thou hast kept me to be head of the heathen: a people which I knew not
shall serve me.

44. And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.

45. Strangers shall submit themselves unto me: as soon as they hear,
they shall be obedient unto me.

45. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he
shewed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?

46. Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of their
close places.

46. And the remnant of the
sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out
of the land.

47. The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and exalted be the God
of the rock of my salvation.

47. There was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king.

48. It is God that avengeth me, and that bringeth down the people
under me.

48. Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but
they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber.

49. And that bringeth me forth from mine enemies: thou also hast
lifted me up on high above them that rose up against me: thou hast
delivered me from the violent man.

49. Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my
servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not.

50. Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and I will sing praises unto thy name.

50. And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned
in his stead.

51. He is the tower of salvation for his king: and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, unto David, and to his seed for evermore.

51. Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria
the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two
years over Israel.

52. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin:

53. For he served
Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of
Israel, according to all that his father had done.




The Second Book of the Kings