1. Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight
against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.

1. Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse
said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God
of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said,

2. Therefore David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go and
smite these Philistines? And the LORD said unto David, Go, and smite
the Philistines, and save Keilah.

2. The Spirit of
the LORD spake by me, and his word was in my tongue.

3. And David’s men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in
Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of
the Philistines?

3. The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that
ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God.

4. Then David enquired of the LORD yet again. And
the LORD answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will
deliver the Philistines into thine hand.

4. And he shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth,
even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of
the earth by clear shining after rain.

5. So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the
Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a
great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

5. Although my house be not so with God; yet he hath made with me an
everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is all
my salvation, and all my desire, although he make it not to grow.

6. And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to
David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.

6. But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust
away, because they cannot be taken with hands:

7. And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul
said, God hath delivered him into mine hand; for he is shut in, by
entering into a town that hath gates and bars.

7. But the man that
shall touch them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear;
and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place.

8. And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to
Keilah, to besiege David and his men.

8. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had: The
Tachmonite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains; the same
was Adino the Eznite: he lift up his spear against eight hundred, whom
he slew at one time.

9. And David knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him;
and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.

9. And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the
three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that
were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were
gone away:

10. Then said David, O LORD God of Israel, thy servant hath
certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the
city for my sake.

10. He arose, and smote the Philistines until his hand
was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword: and the LORD wrought a
great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to
spoil.

11. Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul
come down, as thy servant hath heard? O LORD God of Israel, I beseech
thee, tell thy servant. And the LORD said, He will come down.

11. And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. And the
Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a piece of
ground full of lentiles: and the people fled from the Philistines.

12. Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men
into the hand of Saul? And the LORD said, They will deliver thee up.

12. But he stood in the midst of the ground, and defended it, and
slew the Philistines: and the LORD wrought a great victory.

13. Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and
departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it
was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go
forth.

13. And three of the thirty chief went down, and came to David in
the harvest time unto the cave of Adullam: and the troop of the
Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim.

14. And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained
in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every
day, but God delivered him not into his hand.

14. And David was then in an hold, and the garrison of the
Philistines was then in Bethlehem.

15. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David
was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.

15. And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!

16. And Jonathan Saul’s son arose, and went to David into the wood,
and strengthened his hand in God.

16. And
the three mighty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and
drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and
took it, and brought it to David: nevertheless he would not drink
thereof, but poured it out unto the LORD.

17. And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father
shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall
be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.

17. And he said, Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this:
is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives?
therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty
men.

18. And they two made a covenant before the LORD: and David abode in
the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.

18. And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief
among three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred, and
slew them, and had the name among three.

19. Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not
David hide himself with us in strong holds in the wood, in the hill of
Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?

19. Was he not most honourable of three? therefore he was their
captain: howbeit he attained not unto the first three.

20. Now therefore, O
king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down;
and our part shall be to deliver him into the king’s hand.

20. And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lionlike men of Moab: he
went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow:

21. And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the LORD; for ye have compassion
on me.

21. And he slew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a
spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked
the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear.

22. Go, I pray you, prepare yet, and know and see his place where
his haunt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he
dealeth very subtilly.

22. These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name
among three mighty men.

23. See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places
where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty,
and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the
land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of
Judah.

23. He was more honourable than the thirty, but he attained not to
the first three. And David set him over his guard.

24. And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his
men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of
Jeshimon.

24. Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the
son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

25. Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David;
wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of
Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the
wilderness of Maon.

25. Shammah the Harodite, Elika the
Harodite,

26. And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his
men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for
fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round
about to take them.

26. Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,

27. But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and
come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.

27. Abiezer the Anethothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,

28. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went
against the Philistines: therefore they called that place
Selahammahlekoth.

28. Zalmon
the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,

29. And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strong holds at
Engedi.

29. Heleb the son of Baanah,
a Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai out of Gibeah of the children
of Benjamin,

30. Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of
Gaash,

31. Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,

32. Eliahba the Shaalbonite, of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,

33. Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,

34. Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the
son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,

35. Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the
Arbite,

36. Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,

37. Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite, armourbearer to Joab the
son of Zeruiah,

38. Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite,

39. Uriah
the Hittite: thirty and seven in all.