1. And the ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines
seven months.

1. Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel,
thirty thousand.

1. And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after
the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the
fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month Zif, which is
the second month, that he began to build the house of the LORD.

1. And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, the
place where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.

2. And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners,
saying, What shall we do to the ark of the LORD? tell us wherewith we
shall send it to his place.

2. And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him
from Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose
name is called by the name of the LORD of hosts that dwelleth between
the cherubims.

2. And the house which king Solomon built for the LORD, the length
thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits,
and the height thereof thirty cubits.

2. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a
beam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. And he
answered, Go ye.

3. And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send
it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then ye
shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not
removed from you.

3. And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of
the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons
of Abinadab, drave the new cart.

3. And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was
the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten
cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.

3. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants.
And he answered, I will go.

4. Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall
return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden
mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one
plague was on you all, and on your lords.

4. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was at
Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.

4. And for the house he made windows of narrow lights.

4. So he went with them. And when they came to Jordan, they cut down
wood.

5. Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of your
mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of
Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from
off your gods, and from off your land.

5. And David and all the house of Israel played before the LORD on
all manner of instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, and on
psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on cymbals.

5. And against the wall of the house he built chambers round about,
against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of
the oracle: and he made chambers round about:

5. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water:
and he cried, and said, Alas, master! for it was borrowed.

6. Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and
Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among
them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?

6. And when they came to Nachon’s threshingfloor, Uzzah put forth his
hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it.

6. The nethermost
chamber was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad,
and the third was seven cubits broad: for without in the wall of the
house he made narrowed rests round about, that the beams should not be
fastened in the walls of the house.

6. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he shewed him the
place.

And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron did
swim.

7. Now
therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, on which there
hath come no yoke, and tie the kine to the cart, and bring their
calves home from them:

7. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote
him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God.

7. And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made
ready before it was brought thither: so that there was neither hammer
nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in
building.

7. Therefore said he, Take it up to thee. And he put out his hand,
and took it.

8. And take the ark of the LORD, and lay it
upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a
trespass offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away,
that it may go.

8. And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach upon
Uzzah: and he called the name of the place Perezuzzah to this day.

8. The door for the middle chamber was in the right side of the
house: and they went up with winding stairs into the middle chamber,
and out of the middle into the third.

8. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, and took counsel
with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.

9. And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to
Bethshemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we
shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that
happened to us.

9. And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and said, How shall the
ark of the LORD come to me?

9. So he built the house, and finished it; and covered the house with
beams and boards of cedar.

9. And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware
that thou pass not such a place; for thither the Syrians are come
down.

10. And the men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them to the
cart, and shut up their calves at home:

10. So David would not remove the ark of
the LORD unto him into the city of David: but David carried it aside
into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

10. And then he built chambers against all the house, five cubits
high: and they rested on the house with timber of cedar.

10. And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God
told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor
twice.

11. And they laid the ark of
the LORD upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the
images of their emerods.

11. And the ark of the LORD continued in the house of Obededom the
Gittite three months: and the LORD blessed Obededom, and all his
household.

11. And the word of the LORD came to Solomon, saying,

11. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for
this thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them, Will ye
not shew me which of us is for the king of Israel?

12. And the kine took the straight way to the way of Bethshemesh, and
went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to
the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went
after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.

12. And it was told king David, saying, The LORD hath blessed the
house of Obededom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the
ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house
of Obededom into the city of David with gladness.

12. Concerning
this house which thou art in building, if thou wilt walk in my
statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to
walk in them; then will I perform my word with thee, which I spake
unto David thy father:

12. And one of
his servants said, None, my lord, O king: but Elisha, the prophet that
is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest
in thy bedchamber.

13. And they of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the
valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced
to see it.

13. And it was so, that when they that bare the ark of the LORD had
gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings.

13. And I will dwell among the children of
Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.

13. And he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch
him.

And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.

14. And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and
stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of
the cart, and offered the kine a burnt offering unto the LORD.

14. And David danced before the LORD with all his might; and David
was girded with a linen ephod.

14. So Solomon built the house, and finished it.

14. Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host:
and they came by night, and compassed the city about.

15. And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD, and the coffer
that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them on the
great stone: and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and
sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the LORD.

15. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the
LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.

15. And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar,
both the floor of the house, and the walls of the ceiling: and he
covered them on the inside with wood, and covered the floor of the
house with planks of fir.

15. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone
forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and
chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we
do?

16. And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they
returned to Ekron the same day.

16. And as the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal
Saul’s daughter looked through a window, and saw king David leaping
and dancing before the LORD; and she despised him in her heart.

16. And he built twenty cubits on the sides of the house, both the
floor and the walls with boards of cedar: he even built them for it
within, even for the oracle, even for the most holy place.

16. And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are more
than they that be with them.

17. And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned
for a trespass offering unto the LORD; for Ashdod one, for Gaza one,
for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;

17. And they brought in the ark of the LORD, and set it in his place,
in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and
David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.

17. And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits
long.

17. And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes,
that he may see. And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man; and he
saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire
round about Elisha.

18. And the golden
mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines
belonging to the five lords, both of fenced cities, and of country
villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the
ark of the LORD: which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of
Joshua, the Bethshemite.

18. And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings
and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of
hosts.

18. And the cedar of the house within was carved with knops and open
flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.

18. And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the LORD, and
said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote
them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.

19. And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they had looked into
the ark of the LORD, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and
threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because the LORD had
smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.

19. And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude
of Israel, as well to the women as men, to every one a cake of bread,
and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine. So all the people
departed every one to his house.

19. And the oracle he prepared in the house within, to set there the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

19. And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this
the city: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. But
he led them to Samaria.

20. And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this
holy LORD God? and to whom shall he go up from us?

20. Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the
daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was
the king of Israel to day, who uncovered himself to day in the eyes of
the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly
uncovereth himself!

20. And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, and
twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height thereof: and
he overlaid it with pure gold; and so covered the altar which was of
cedar.

20. And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, that
Elisha said, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. And
the LORD opened their eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were in
the midst of Samaria.

21. And they sent
messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjathjearim, saying, The
Philistines have brought again the ark of the LORD; come ye down, and
fetch it up to you.

21. And David said unto Michal, It was before
the LORD, which chose me before thy father, and before all his house,
to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel:
therefore will I play before the LORD.

21. So Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold: and he made
a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle; and he overlaid
it with gold.

21. And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My
father, shall I smite them? shall I smite them?

22. And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine
own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them
shall I be had in honour.

22. And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until he had finished
all the house: also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid
with gold.

22. And he answered,
Thou shalt not smite them: wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast
taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? set bread and water
before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.

23. Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day
of her death.

23. And within the oracle he made two cherubims of olive tree, each
ten cubits high.

23. And he prepared great provision for them: and when they had eaten
and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the
bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel.

24. And five cubits was the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits
the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost part of the one wing
unto the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.

24. And it came to pass after this, that Benhadad king of Syria
gathered all his host, and went up, and besieged Samaria.

25. And the other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubims were of
one measure and one size.

25. And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behold, they
besieged it, until an ass’s head was sold for fourscore pieces of
silver, and the fourth part of a cab of dove’s dung for five pieces of
silver.

26. The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the
other cherub.

26. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there
cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.

27. And he set the cherubims within the inner house: and they
stretched forth the wings of the cherubims, so that the wing of the
one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the
other wall; and their wings touched one another in the midst of the
house.

27. And he said, If the LORD do not help thee, whence shall I help
thee? out of the barnfloor, or out of the winepress?

28. And he overlaid the cherubims with gold.

28. And the
king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman
said unto me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to day, and we will
eat my son to morrow.

29. And he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved
figures of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, within and
without.

29. So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on the
next day, Give thy son, that we may eat him: and she hath hid her son.

30. And the floors of the house he overlaid with gold, within and
without.

30. And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman,
that he rent his clothes; and he passed by upon the wall, and the
people looked, and, behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh.

31. And for the entering of the oracle he made doors of olive tree:
the lintel and side posts were a fifth part of the wall.

31. Then he said, God do so and more also to me, if the head of
Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.

32. The two doors also were of olive tree; and he carved upon them
carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, and overlaid
them with gold, and spread gold upon the cherubims, and upon the palm
trees.

32. But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him; and the
king sent a man from before him: but ere the messenger came to him, he
said to the elders, See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent to
take away mine head? look, when the messenger cometh, shut the door,
and hold him fast at the door: is not the sound of his master’s feet
behind him?

33. So also made he for the door of the temple posts of olive tree, a
fourth part of the wall.

33. And while he yet talked with them, behold, the
messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of the
LORD; what should I wait for the LORD any longer?

34. And the two doors were of fir tree: the two leaves of the one
door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.

35. And he carved thereon cherubims and palm trees and open flowers:
and covered them with gold fitted upon the carved work.

36. And he built the inner court with three rows of hewed stone, and
a row of cedar beams.

37. In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of the LORD
laid, in the month Zif:

38. And in the eleventh year, in the month
Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished throughout all
the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he
seven years in building it.