1. And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a
place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

1. And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:

2. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the
Levites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and to
minister unto him for ever.

2. And
he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

3. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up
the ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.

3. Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and without law.

4. And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites:

4. But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

5. Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundred
and twenty:

5. And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants
of the countries.

6. Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and his
brethren two hundred and twenty:

6. And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

7. Of the sons of Gershom; Joel the
chief and his brethren an hundred and thirty:

7. Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

8. Of the sons of
Elizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred:

8. And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

9. Of
the sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore:

9. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.

10. Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an
hundred and twelve.

10. So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

11. And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the
Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and
Amminadab,

11. And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

12. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers
of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that
ye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that
I have prepared for it.

12. And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and with all their soul;

13. For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made a
breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

13. That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

14. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up
the ark of the LORD God of Israel.

14. And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

15. And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their
shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the
word of the LORD.

15. And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all
their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

16. And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their
brethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and
harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

16. And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook
Kidron.

17. So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their
brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

17. But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:
nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

18. And with them their
brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,
and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,
the porters.

18. And he brought into the house of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

19. So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound
with cymbals of brass;

19. And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

20. And Zechariah, and Aziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and
Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth;

21. And Mattithiah, and
Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with
harps on the Sheminith to excel.

22. And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed
about the song, because he was skilful.

23. And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

24. And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were
doorkeepers for the ark.

25. So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over
thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
the house of Obededom with joy.

26. And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks and
seven rams.

27. And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the
Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master
of the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of
linen.

28. Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD
with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and
with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

29. And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came
to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out at
a window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in
her heart.