1. So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the
tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices
and peace offerings before God.

1. In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king of
Israel came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that he
might let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

2. And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offerings
and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the
LORD.

2. Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the
house of the LORD and of the king’s house, and sent to Benhadad king
of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

3. And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every
one a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

3. There is a league
between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father:
behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

4. And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the
ark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God
of Israel:

4. And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.

5. Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and
Obededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a
sound with cymbals;

5. And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off
building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

6. Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with
trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

6. Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the
stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha was
building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.

7. Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the
LORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.

7. And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and
said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not
relied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria
escaped out of thine hand.

8. Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known his
deeds among the people.

8. Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very
many chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,
he delivered them into thine hand.

9. Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous
works.

9. For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole
earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is
perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from
henceforth thou shalt have wars.

10. Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that
seek the LORD.

10. Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;
for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed
some of the people the same time.

11. Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually.

11. And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are
written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

12. Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders,
and the judgments of his mouth;

12. And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased
in his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease
he sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.

13. O ye seed of Israel his servant,
ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

13. And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth
year of his reign.

14. He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.

14. And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made for
himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled
with sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by the
apothecaries’ art: and they made a very great burning for him.

15. Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he
commanded to a thousand generations;

16. Even of the covenant which
he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;

17. And hath
confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an
everlasting covenant,

18. Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of
Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;

19. When ye were but few, even
a few, and strangers in it.

20. And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom
to another people;

21. He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he
reproved kings for their sakes,

22. Saying, Touch not mine anointed,
and do my prophets no harm.

23. Sing unto the LORD, all the earth; shew forth from day to day
his salvation.

24. Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works among
all nations.

25. For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised: he also is to
be feared above all gods.

26. For all the gods of the people are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

27. Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness are
in his place.

28. Give unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.

29. Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty of
holiness.

30. Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable,
that it be not moved.

31. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men
say among the nations, The LORD reigneth.

32. Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields
rejoice, and all that is therein.

33. Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of the
LORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.

34. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

35. And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us
together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks to
thy holy name, and glory in thy praise.

36. Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. And all the
people said, Amen, and praised the LORD.

37. So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD
Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as
every day’s work required:

38. And Obededom with their brethren,
threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to
be porters:

39. And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests,
before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was at
Gibeon,

40. To offer burnt offerings unto the LORD upon the altar of
the burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to do
according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which he
commanded Israel;

41. And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest
that were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the
LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever;

42. And with them Heman
and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make a
sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun
were porters.

43. And all the people departed every man to his house: and David
returned to bless his house.