1. Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said
to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the ark
of the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.

1. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

2. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; for
God is with thee.

2. And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

3. And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to
Nathan, saying,

3. And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim;

4. Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith the
LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in:

4. But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

5. For I have
not dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this
day; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to
another.

5. Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in
abundance.

6. Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any
of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying,
Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?

6. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

7. Now therefore thus
shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I
took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thou
shouldest be ruler over my people Israel:

7. Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

8. And I have been with
thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine
enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name of
the great men that are in the earth.

8. And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,
and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram, priests.

9. Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant
them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;
neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at
the beginning,

9. And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD
with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the people.

10. And since the time that I commanded judges to be
over my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.
Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.

10. And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

11. And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after
thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

11. Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

12. He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for
ever.

12. And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before
thee:

13. And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

14. But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for
ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

14. And these are the numbers of them according to the house of
their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

15. And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

16. And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who
am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto?

16. And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

17. And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;
for thou hast also spoken of thy servant’s house for a great while to
come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high
degree, O LORD God.

17. And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

18. What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant?
for thou knowest thy servant.

18. And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

19. O LORD, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own
heart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all these
great things.

19. These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

20. O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside
thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

21. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom
God went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name of
greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thy
people whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?

22. For thy people
Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,
becamest their God.

23. Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken
concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for
ever, and do as thou hast said.

24. Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for
ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and let the house of David thy servant be established before
thee.

25. For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt build
him an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to pray
before thee.

26. And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodness
unto thy servant:

27. Now therefore let it please thee to bless the
house of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thou
blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.