1. Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the
service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who
should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the
number of the workmen according to their service was:

1. Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name
was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

2. Of the sons
of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of
Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the
order of the king.

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not
with a perfect heart.

3. Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and
Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their
father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to
praise the LORD.

3. Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him,
that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.

4. Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel,
and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer,
Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth:

4. But he slew not their children, but did as it is written in the
law in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, The
fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die
for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.

5. All these were the
sons of Heman the king’s seer in the words of God, to lift up the
horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

5. Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and made them captains
over thousands, and captains over hundreds, according to the houses of
their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them
from twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousand
choice men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and
shield.

6. All these were under the hands of their father for song in the
house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the
service of the house of God, according to the king’s order to Asaph,
Jeduthun, and Heman.

6. He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out of
Israel for an hundred talents of silver.

7. So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed
in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred
fourscore and eight.

7. But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the
army of Israel go with thee; for the LORD is not with Israel, to wit,
with all the children of Ephraim.

8. And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the
great, the teacher as the scholar.

8. But if thou wilt go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shall
make thee fall before the enemy: for God hath power to help, and to
cast down.

9. Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to
Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve:

9. And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the
hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man
of God answered, The LORD is able to give thee much more than this.

10. The third
to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

10. Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come to
him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was
greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.

11. The
fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

11. And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, and
went to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten
thousand.

12. The
fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

12. And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judah
carry away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and
cast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in
pieces.

13. The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

13. But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that they
should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from
Samaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, and
took much spoil.

14. The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve:

14. Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the
slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of
Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before
them, and burned incense unto them.

15. The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve:

15. Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah, and
he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought
after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people
out of thine hand?

16. The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve:

16. And it came to pass, as he talked with him,
that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king’s counsel?
forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and
said, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou
hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.

17. The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and
his brethren, were twelve:

17. Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the
son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us
see one another in the face.

18. The eleventh to Azareel, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

18. And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying,
The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon,
saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a
wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

19. And out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men of
war, and five men of them that were in the king’s presence, which were
found in the city, and the principal scribe of the host, which
mustered the people of the land, and threescore men of the people of
the land that were found in the city:

19. The twelfth to Hashabiah,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

19. Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heart
lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddle
to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with
thee?

20. And Nebuzaradan captain of
the guard took these, and brought them to the king of Babylon to
Riblah:

20. The thirteenth to
Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

20. But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that he
might deliver them into the hand of their enemies, because they sought
after the gods of Edom.

21. And the king of Babylon smote them, and slew them at
Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away out of their
land.

21. The
fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

21. So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another in
the face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, which
belongeth to Judah.

22. And as for the people that remained in the land of Judah, whom
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, even over them he made
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler.

22. The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve:

22. And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled
every man to his tent.

23. And when all the captains of the armies, they and their men,
heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, there came
to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan
the son of Careah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite,
and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and their men.

23. The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve:

23. And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son
of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to
Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of
Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.

24. And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and said unto
them, Fear not to be the servants of the Chaldees: dwell in the land,
and serve the king of Babylon; and it shall be well with you.

24. The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

24. And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels
that were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the treasures
of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.

25. But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son
of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, came, and ten
men with him, and smote Gedaliah, that he died, and the Jews and the
Chaldees that were with him at Mizpah.

25. The eighteenth to Hanani,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25. And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

26. And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of
the armies, arose, and came to Egypt: for they were afraid of the
Chaldees.

26. The nineteenth to
Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

26. Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are
they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?

27. And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the
captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the
seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of
Babylon in the year that he began to reign did lift up the head of
Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison;

27. The
twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

27. Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from following the LORD
they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to
Lachish: but they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.

28. And he spake kindly to
him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were with
him in Babylon;

28. The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve:

28. And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his
fathers in the city of Judah.

29. And changed his prison garments: and he did eat
bread continually before him all the days of his life.

29. The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons,
and his brethren, were twelve:

30. And his allowance was a continual allowance given him of the
king, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life.




The First Book of the Chronicles

30. The three and twentieth to
Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

31. The four
and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve.