1. The sons of Judah; Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.

1. Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length
thereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits the
height thereof.

1. Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the
children of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God of
Israel;

2. And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat
Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.

2. Also he made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round
in compass, and five cubits the height thereof; and a line of thirty
cubits did compass it round about.

2. Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the
fathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek your
God, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of
Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither.

3. And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Ishma, and
Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi:

3. And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass it
round about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two rows
of oxen were cast, when it was cast.

3. But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the
fathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to
build an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build unto
the LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath
commanded us.

4. And Penuel
the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons
of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.

4. It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and
three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,
and all their hinder parts were inward.

4. Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of
Judah, and troubled them in building,

5. And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.

5. And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of it
like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it
received and held three thousand baths.

5. And hired counsellors
against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king
of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

6. And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and
Haahashtari.

These were the sons of Naarah.

6. He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five
on the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for the
burnt offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to
wash in.

6. And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign,
wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and
Jerusalem.

7. And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.

7. And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and
set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.

7. And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel,
and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; and
the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, and
interpreted in the Syrian tongue.

8. And Coz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the
son of Harum.

8. He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on
the right side, and five on the left. And he made an hundred basons of
gold.

8. Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter
against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort:

9. And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren: and his mother
called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow.

9. Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court,
and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.

9. Then wrote
Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their
companions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the
Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the
Dehavites, and the Elamites,

10. And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou
wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand
might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it
may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested.

10. And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over
against the south.

10. And the rest of the nations whom the
great and noble Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities of
Samaria, and the rest that are on this side the river, and at such a
time.

11. And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father
of Eshton.

11. And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basons. And
Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the
house of God;

11. This is the copy of the letter that they sent unto him, even unto
Artaxerxes the king; Thy servants the men on this side the river, and
at such a time.

12. And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father
of Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah.

12. To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the
chapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two
wreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on the
top of the pillars;

12. Be it known unto the king, that the Jews which came up from thee
to us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the bad
city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations.

13. And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of
Othniel; Hathath.

13. And four hundred pomegranates on the two
wreaths; two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two
pommels of the chapiters which were upon the pillars.

13. Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be builded, and
the walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, and
custom, and so thou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.

14. And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the father of
the valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen.

14. He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases;

14. Now because we have maintenance from the king’s palace, and it
was not meet for us to see the king’s dishonour, therefore have we
sent and certified the king;

15. And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam:
and the sons of Elah, even Kenaz.

15. One
sea, and twelve oxen under it.

15. That search may be made in the book
of the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in the book of the
records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful
unto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the
same of old time: for which cause was this city destroyed.

16. And the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.

16. The pots also, and the shovels, and the fleshhooks, and all their
instruments, did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the house
of the LORD of bright brass.

16. We certify the king that, if this city be builded again, and the
walls thereof set up, by this means thou shalt have no portion on this
side the river.

17. And the sons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and
Jalon: and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of
Eshtemoa.

17. In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth and Zeredathah.

17. Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum the chancellor, and to
Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions that dwell in
Samaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peace, and at such a
time.

18. And his wife Jehudijah bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber
the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are
the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.

18. Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for the
weight of the brass could not be found out.

18. The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainly read before
me.

19. And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father
of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.

19. And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God,
the golden altar also, and the tables whereon the shewbread was set;

19. And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is found that
this city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and that
rebellion and sedition have been made therein.

20. And the sons of Shimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and
Tilon.

And the sons of Ishi were, Zoheth, and Benzoheth.

20. Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that they should burn
after the manner before the oracle, of pure gold;

20. There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, which have
ruled over all countries beyond the river; and toll, tribute, and
custom, was paid unto them.

21. The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah,
and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of
them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea,

21. And the
flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and that
perfect gold;

21. Give ye now commandment to cause these men to cease, and that
this city be not builded, until another commandment shall be given
from me.

22. And Jokim,
and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in
Moab, and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things.

22. And the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons,
and the censers, of pure gold: and the entry of the house, the inner
doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house of
the temple, were of gold.

22. Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: why should damage grow
to the hurt of the kings?

23. These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plants and
hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his work.

23. Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes’
letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their
companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and made
them to cease by force and power.

24. The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and
Shaul:

24. Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem.
So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of
Persia.

25. Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.

26. And the sons of Mishma; Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei
his son.

27. And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters: but his brethren
had not many children, neither did all their family multiply, like to
the children of Judah.

28. And they dwelt at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,

29. And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,

30. And at Bethuel, and at
Hormah, and at Ziklag,

31. And at Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusim, and
at Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reign
of David.

32. And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and
Ashan, five cities:

33. And all their villages that were round about
the same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and their
genealogy.

34. And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,

35. And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of
Asiel,

36. And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah,
and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,

37. And Ziza the son of Shiphi,
the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of
Shemaiah;

38. These mentioned by their names were princes in their
families: and the house of their fathers increased greatly.

39. And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side
of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.

40. And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and
quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old.

41. And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of
Judah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found
there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their
rooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks.

42. And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men,
went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah,
and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.

43. And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, and
dwelt there unto this day.