1. The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

1. Then said Solomon, The LORD hath said that he would dwell in the
thick darkness.

2. And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

2. But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place for
thy dwelling for ever.

3. And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. The sons
also of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

3. And the king turned his face, and blessed the whole congregation
of Israel: and all the congregation of Israel stood.

4. Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,

4. And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who hath with his
hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David,
saying,

5. And Abishua
begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi,

5. Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the
land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build
an house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to
be a ruler over my people Israel:

6. And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and
Zerahiah begat Meraioth,

6. But I have chosen Jerusalem,
that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my
people Israel.

7. Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat
Ahitub,

7. Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

8. And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,

8. But the LORD said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine
heart to build an house for my name, thou didst well in that it was in
thine heart:

9. And
Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan,

9. Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; but
thy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the
house for my name.

10. And Johanan
begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest’s office in the
temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem:)

10. The LORD therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken:
for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and am set on the
throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

11. And Azariah begat
Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,

11. And in it have I put the ark, wherein is the covenant of the
LORD, that he made with the children of Israel.

12. And Ahitub begat Zadok, and
Zadok begat Shallum,

12. And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all
the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands:

13. And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat
Azariah,

13. For
Solomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long, and five
cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of
the court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees
before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands
toward heaven.

14. And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak,

14. And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee in the
heaven, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercy
unto thy servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts:

15. And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carried away
Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

15. Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou
hast promised him; and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it
with thine hand, as it is this day.

16. The sons of Levi; Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.

16. Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David
my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not
fail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; yet so
that thy children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as thou
hast walked before me.

17. And these be the names of the sons of Gershom; Libni, and Shimei.

17. Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which
thou hast spoken unto thy servant David.

18. And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and
Uzziel.

18. But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold,
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less
this house which I have built!

19. The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are the families
of the Levites according to their fathers.

19. Have respect therefore to the
prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to
hearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy servant prayeth before
thee:

20. Of Gershom; Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,

20. That thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night,
upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy name
there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth toward
this place.

21. Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.

21. Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, and of
thy people Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thou
from thy dwelling place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest,
forgive.

22. The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his
son,

22. If a man sin against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him
to make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house;

23. Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,

23. Then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, by
requiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head; and
by justifying the righteous, by giving him according to his
righteousness.

24. Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

24. And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before the enemy,
because they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confess
thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;

25. And the sons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth.

25. Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sin of thy
people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to
them and to their fathers.

26. As for Elkanah: the sons of Elkanah; Zophai his son, and Nahath
his son,

26. When the heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they
have sinned against thee; yet if they pray toward this place, and
confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict
them;

27. Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.

27. Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy
servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them the
good way, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which
thou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance.

28. And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah.

28. If there be dearth in the land, if there be pestilence, if there
be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemies
besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore or
whatsoever sickness there be:

29. The sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza
his son,

29. Then what prayer or what
supplication soever shall be made of any man, or of all thy people
Israel, when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief, and
shall spread forth his hands in this house:

30. Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.

30. Then hear thou from
heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every man
according unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou only
knowest the hearts of the children of men:)

31. And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the
house of the LORD, after that the ark had rest.

31. That they may fear
thee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thou
gavest unto our fathers.

32. And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle
of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of
the LORD in Jerusalem: and then they waited on their office according
to their order.

32. Moreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people
Israel, but is come from a far country for thy great name’s sake, and
thy mighty hand, and thy stretched out arm; if they come and pray in
this house;

33. And these are they that waited with their children. Of the sons
of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of
Shemuel,

33. Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy
dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to
thee for; that all people of the earth may know thy name, and fear
thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which I
have built is called by thy name.

34. The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of
Eliel, the son of Toah,

34. If thy people go out to war against their enemies by the way that
thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city which
thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name;

35. The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the
son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,

35. Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,
and maintain their cause.

36. The son of Elkanah, the son of
Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,

36. If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which sinneth
not,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their
enemies, and they carry them away captives unto a land far off or
near;

37. The son of
Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,

37. Yet if they bethink themselves in the land whither they are
carried captive, and turn and pray unto thee in the land of their
captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, and have dealt
wickedly;

38. The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of
Israel.

38. If they return to thee with all their heart and with
all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have
carried them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest
unto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and
toward the house which I have built for thy name:

39. And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph
the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea,

39. Then hear thou
from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and their
supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people which
have sinned against thee.

40. The son of Michael, the
son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,

40. Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let
thine ears be attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.

41. The son of Ethni, the son
of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,

41. Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place, thou,
and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothed
with salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.

42. The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah,
the son of Shimei,

42. O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: remember
the mercies of David thy servant.

43. The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son
of Levi.

44. And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the left hand:
Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,

45. The
son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,

46. The son
of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer,

47. The son of Mahli,
the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.

48. Their brethren also the Levites were appointed unto all manner of
service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

49. But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burnt
offering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the
work of the place most holy, and to make an atonement for Israel,
according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.

50. And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas his
son, Abishua his son,

51. Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his
son,

52. Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,

53. Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.

54. Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles in
their coasts, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites:
for theirs was the lot.

55. And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs
thereof round about it.

56. But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave
to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

57. And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely,
Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with her suburbs, and Jattir,
and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs,

58. And Hilen with her suburbs,
Debir with her suburbs,

59. And Ashan with her suburbs, and
Bethshemesh with her suburbs:

60. And out of the tribe of Benjamin;
Geba with her suburbs, and Alemeth with her suburbs, and Anathoth with
her suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen
cities.

61. And unto the sons of Kohath, which were left of the family of
that tribe, were cities given out of the half tribe, namely, out of
the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.

62. And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families out of the
tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe
of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen
cities.

63. Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout their
families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and
out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

64. And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with
their suburbs.

65. And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah,
and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe
of the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by their
names.

66. And the residue of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities
of their coasts out of the tribe of Ephraim.

67. And they gave unto them, of the cities of refuge, Shechem in
mount Ephraim with her suburbs; they gave also Gezer with her suburbs,

68. And Jokmeam with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs,

69. And Aijalon with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon with her suburbs:

70. And out of the half tribe of Manasseh; Aner with her suburbs, and
Bileam with her suburbs, for the family of the remnant of the sons of
Kohath.

71. Unto the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the half
tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, and Ashtaroth
with her suburbs:

72. And out of the tribe of Issachar; Kedesh with
her suburbs, Daberath with her suburbs,

73. And Ramoth with her
suburbs, and Anem with her suburbs:

74. And out of the tribe of
Asher; Mashal with her suburbs, and Abdon with her suburbs,

75. And
Hukok with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbs:

76. And out of
the tribe of Naphtali; Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, and Hammon
with her suburbs, and Kirjathaim with her suburbs.

77. Unto the rest of the children of Merari were given out of the
tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with her suburbs, Tabor with her suburbs:

78. And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of
Jordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the
wilderness with her suburbs, and Jahzah with her suburbs,

79. Kedemoth also with her suburbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs:

80. And out of the tribe of Gad; Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs, and
Mahanaim with her suburbs,

81. And Heshbon with her suburbs, and
Jazer with her suburbs.