1. Now the sons of Issachar were, Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and
Shimrom, four.

1. Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down
from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and
the glory of the LORD filled the house.

2. And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai,
and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father’s house, to wit, of
Tola: they were valiant men of might in their generations; whose
number was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six
hundred.

2. And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD,
because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD’s house.

3. And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael,
and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.

3. And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down,
and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves with
their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, and
praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for
ever.

4. And with them, by their generations, after the house of their
fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, six and thirty thousand men:
for they had many wives and sons.

4. Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the
LORD.

5. And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiant
men of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies fourscore and seven
thousand.

5. And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand
oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and all
the people dedicated the house of God.

6. The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.

6. And the priests waited on their offices: the Levites also with
instruments of musick of the LORD, which David the king had made to
praise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when David
praised by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets before
them, and all Israel stood.

7. And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth,
and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of
valour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousand
and thirty and four.

7. Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before
the house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and the
fat of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon had
made was not able to receive the burnt offerings, and the meat
offerings, and the fat.

8. And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and
Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and
Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher.

8. Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all
Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in of
Hamath unto the river of Egypt.

9. And the number of them, after their genealogy by their
generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of
valour, was twenty thousand and two hundred.

9. And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept
the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.

10. The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush,
and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and
Ahishahar.

10. And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent
the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the
goodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and to
Israel his people.

11. All these the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers,
mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred
soldiers, fit to go out for war and battle.

11. Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD, and the king’s
house: and all that came into Solomon’s heart to make in the house of
the LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

12. Shuppim also, and Huppim, the children of Ir, and Hushim, the
sons of Aher.

12. And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I
have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for an
house of sacrifice.

13. The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum,
the sons of Bilhah.

13. If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command the
locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;

14. The sons of Manasseh; Ashriel, whom she bare: (but his concubine
the Aramitess bare Machir the father of Gilead:

14. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble
themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked
ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and
will heal their land.

15. And Machir took
to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister’s name was
Maachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad
had daughters.

15. Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent unto the prayer
that is made in this place.

16. And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called his
name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons
were Ulam and Rakem.

16. For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may
be there for ever: and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there
perpetually.

17. And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the
son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.

17. And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father
walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shalt
observe my statutes and my judgments;

18. And his sister Hammoleketh bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.

18. Then will I stablish the
throne of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thy
father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.

19. And the sons of Shemidah were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and
Aniam.

19. But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments,
which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and
worship them;

20. And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath
his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,

20. Then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my
land which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified
for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a
proverb and a byword among all nations.

21. And Zabad his
son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath
that were born in that land slew, because they came down to take away
their cattle.

21. And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to every
one that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath the LORD done
thus unto this land, and unto this house?

22. And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came
to comfort him.

22. And it shall be
answered, Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, which
brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other
gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought
all this evil upon them.

23. And when he went in to his wife, she conceived, and bare a son,
and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.

24. (And his daughter was Sherah, who built Bethhoron the nether, and
the upper, and Uzzensherah.)

25. And Rephah was his son, also
Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son.

26. Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son.

27. Non his son, Jehoshuah his son.

28. And their possessions and habitations were, Bethel and the towns
thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns
thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the towns
thereof:

29. And by the borders of the children of Manasseh,
Bethshean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns,
Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of
Israel.

30. The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and
Serah their sister.

31. And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of
Birzavith.

32. And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their
sister.

33. And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These
are the children of Japhlet.

34. And the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.

35. And the sons of his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh,
and Amal.

36. The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and
Imrah,

37. Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and
Beera.

38. And the sons of Jether; Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.

39. And the sons of Ulla; Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.

40. All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father’s
house, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And the
number throughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war and
to battle was twenty and six thousand men.