1. So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and, behold, they were
written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah, who were carried
away to Babylon for their transgression.

1. And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came
to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great
company, and camels that bare spices, and gold in abundance, and
precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with
him of all that was in her heart.

2. Now the first inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in their
cities were, the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the Nethinims.

2. And Solomon told her all her questions: and there was nothing hid
from Solomon which he told her not.

3. And in Jerusalem dwelt of the children of Judah, and of the
children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Manasseh;

3. And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, and
the house that he had built,

4. Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the
son of Bani, of the children of Pharez the son of Judah.

4. And the meat of his table, and the
sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and
their apparel; his cupbearers also, and their apparel; and his ascent
by which he went up into the house of the LORD; there was no more
spirit in her.

5. And of the Shilonites; Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.

5. And she said to the king, It was a true report which I heard in
mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom:

6. And of the sons of Zerah; Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred
and ninety.

6. Howbeit I believed
not their words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold,
the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me: for thou
exceedest the fame that I heard.

7. And of the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son
of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah,

7. Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, and hear thy wisdom.

8. And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham,
and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of
Shephathiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;

8. Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee to set thee
on his throne, to be king for the LORD thy God: because thy God loved
Israel, to establish them for ever, therefore made he thee king over
them, to do judgment and justice.

9. And their
brethren, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty and
six. All these men were chief of the fathers in the house of their
fathers.

9. And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and
of spices great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any
such spice as the queen of Sheba gave king Solomon.

10. And of the priests; Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,

10. And the servants also of Huram, and the servants of Solomon,
which brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious
stones.

11. And
Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok,
the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;

11. And the king made of the algum trees terraces to the house of the
LORD, and to the king’s palace, and harps and psalteries for singers:
and there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.

12. And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of
Malchijah, and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son
of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;

12. And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that which she had brought unto the king.
So she turned, and went away to her own land, she and her servants.

13. And
their brethren, heads of the house of their fathers, a thousand and
seven hundred and threescore; very able men for the work of the
service of the house of God.

13. Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six
hundred and threescore and six talents of gold;

14. And of the Levites; Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of
Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;

14. Beside that which
chapmen and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and
governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.

15. And
Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son
of Zichri, the son of Asaph;

15. And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of beaten gold went to one target.

16. And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the
son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the
son of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.

16. And three hundred shields made he of beaten gold: three hundred
shekels of gold went to one shield. And the king put them in the house
of the forest of Lebanon.

17. And the porters were, Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman,
and their brethren: Shallum was the chief;

17. Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it
with pure gold.

18. Who hitherto waited in
the king’s gate eastward: they were porters in the companies of the
children of Levi.

18. And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold,
which were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the
sitting place, and two lions standing by the stays:

19. And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of
Korah, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korahites,
were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the
tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the LORD, were
keepers of the entry.

19. And twelve
lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps.
There was not the like made in any kingdom.

20. And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in time
past, and the LORD was with him.

20. And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, and
all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure
gold: none were of silver; it was not any thing accounted of in the
days of Solomon.

21. And Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation.

21. For the king’s ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram:
every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold, and
silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

22. All these which were chosen to be porters in the gates were two
hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in their
villages, whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their set
office.

22. And king Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in riches and
wisdom.

23. So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the
house of the LORD, namely, the house of the tabernacle, by wards.

23. And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to
hear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.

24. In four quarters were the porters, toward the east, west, north,
and south.

24. And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and
vessels of gold, and raiment, harness, and spices, horses, and mules,
a rate year by year.

25. And their brethren, which were in their villages, were to come
after seven days from time to time with them.

25. And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and
twelve thousand horsemen; whom he bestowed in the chariot cities, and
with the king at Jerusalem.

26. For these Levites, the four chief porters, were in their set
office, and were over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God.

26. And he reigned over all the kings from the river even unto the
land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.

27. And they lodged round about the house of God, because the charge
was upon them, and the opening thereof every morning pertained to
them.

27. And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar trees
made he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plains in abundance.

28. And certain of them had the charge of the ministering vessels,
that they should bring them in and out by tale.

28. And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt, and out of all
lands.

29. Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels, and all
the instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine,
and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.

29. Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not
written in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of
Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer against
Jeroboam the son of Nebat?

30. And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the
spices.

30. And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over
all Israel forty years.

31. And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of
Shallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that were
made in the pans.

31. And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

32. And other of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were
over the shewbread, to prepare it every sabbath.

33. And these are the singers, chief of the fathers of the Levites,
who remaining in the chambers were free: for they were employed in
that work day and night.

34. These chief fathers of the Levites were chief throughout their
generations; these dwelt at Jerusalem.

35. And in Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jehiel, whose wife’s
name was Maachah:

36. And his firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, and
Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab.

37. And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.

38. And Mikloth begat Shimeam. And they also dwelt with their
brethren at Jerusalem, over against their brethren.

39. And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan,
and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

40. And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal begat Micah.

41. And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and
Ahaz.

42. And Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and
Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza;

43. And Moza begat Binea; and Rephaiah
his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.

44. And Azel had six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru,
and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these were the sons
of Azel.