1. In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began
Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.

1. And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a
place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

1. And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:

1. Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,

1. Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

1. A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up
anger.

1. The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid
waste, and brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab is
laid waste, and brought to silence;

1. Then said the LORD unto me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before
me, yet my mind could not be toward this people: cast them out of my
sight, and let them go forth.

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned
two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jecholiah
of Jerusalem.

2. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the
Levites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and to
minister unto him for ever.

2. And
he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

2. Should a wise
man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?

2. He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and
speaketh the truth in his heart.

2. The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of
fools poureth out foolishness.

2. He is gone up to Bajith, and
to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, and
over Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard cut
off.

2. And it shall come to pass, if they say unto thee, Whither shall
we go forth? then thou shalt tell them, Thus saith the LORD; Such as
are for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword;
and such as are for the famine, to the famine; and such as are for the
captivity, to the captivity.

2. Son of man,
what is the vine tree more than any tree, or than a branch which is
among the trees of the forest?

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah had done;

3. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up
the ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.

3. Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and without law.

3. Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he
can do no good?

3. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

3. The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and
the good.

3. In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on
the tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl,
weeping abundantly.

3. And I will appoint over them four kinds, saith the LORD: the
sword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and the fowls of the heaven, and
the beasts of the earth, to devour and destroy.

3. Shall wood be taken thereof to do
any work? or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?

4. Save that the
high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incense
still on the high places.

4. And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites:

4. But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

4. Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest
prayer before God.

4. In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth
not.

4. A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is
a breach in the spirit.

4. And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard
even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out;
his life shall be grievous unto him.

4. And I will cause them to be removed into all kingdoms of the
earth, because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for that
which he did in Jerusalem.

4. Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire devoureth
both the ends of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it meet for any
work?

5. And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day
of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king’s son
was over the house, judging the people of the land.

5. Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundred
and twenty:

5. And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants
of the countries.

5. For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the
tongue of the crafty.

5. He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.

5. A fool despiseth his father’s instruction: but he that regardeth
reproof is prudent.

5. My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shall flee unto
Zoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith
with weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they
shall raise up a cry of destruction.

5. For who shall have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who shall
bemoan thee? or who shall go aside to ask how thou doest?

5. Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: how
much less shall it be meet yet for any work, when the fire hath
devoured it, and it is burned?

6. And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

6. Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and his
brethren two hundred and twenty:

6. And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

6. Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips
testify against thee.

6. In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the
revenues of the wicked is trouble.

6. For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay is
withered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.

6. Thou
hast forsaken me, saith the LORD, thou art gone backward: therefore
will I stretch out my hand against thee, and destroy thee; I am weary
with repenting.

6. Therefore thus saith the Lord
GOD; As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have
given to the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.

7. So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his
fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

7. Of the sons of Gershom; Joel the
chief and his brethren an hundred and thirty:

7. Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

7. Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before
the hills?

7. The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the
foolish doeth not so.

7. Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they
have laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows.

7. And I will fan them with a fan in the gates of the land; I will
bereave them of children, I will destroy my people since they return
not from their ways.

7. And I will set my face against them; they shall go out from one
fire, and another fire shall devour them; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD, when I set my face against them.

8. In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did
Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.

8. Of the sons of
Elizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred:

8. And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

8. Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou
restrain wisdom to thyself?

8. The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but
the prayer of the upright is his delight.

8. For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howling
thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim.

8. Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas: I
have brought upon them against the mother of the young men a spoiler
at noonday: I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terrors
upon the city.

8. And I will make the land desolate, because they have committed a
trespass, saith the Lord GOD.

9. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his
fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of
Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

9. Of
the sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore:

9. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.

9. What knowest thou, that we know not?
what understandest thou, which is not in us?

9. The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he
loveth him that followeth after righteousness.

9. For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring
more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the
remnant of the land.

9. She that hath borne seven languisheth: she hath given up the
ghost; her sun is gone down while it was yet day: she hath been
ashamed and confounded: and the residue of them will I deliver to the
sword before their enemies, saith the LORD.

10. And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote
him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

10. Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an
hundred and twelve.

10. So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

10. With us are both
the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father.

10. Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he
that hateth reproof shall die.

10. Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man of strife
and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither lent on
usury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet every one of them doth
curse me.

11. And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they are written
in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

11. And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the
Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and
Amminadab,

11. And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

11. Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret
thing with thee?

11. Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the
hearts of the children of men?

11. The LORD said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verily
I will cause the enemy to entreat thee well in the time of evil and in
the time of affliction.

12. This was the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying,
Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth generation.
And so it came to pass.

12. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers
of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that
ye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that
I have prepared for it.

12. And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and with all their soul;

12. Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what
do thy eyes wink at,

12. A scorner loveth not one that
reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.

12. Shall iron break the northern iron and the steel?

13. Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and
thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in
Samaria.

13. For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made a
breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

13. That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

13. That thou turnest thy spirit against God,
and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?

13. A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of
the heart the spirit is broken.

13. Thy
substance and thy treasures will I give to the spoil without price,
and that for all thy sins, even in all thy borders.

14. For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to
Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him,
and reigned in his stead.

14. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up
the ark of the LORD God of Israel.

14. And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

14. What is man, that
he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be
righteous?

14. The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but
the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.

14. And I will make thee to pass with thine enemies into a land
which thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, which
shall burn upon you.

15. And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he
made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

15. And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their
shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the
word of the LORD.

15. And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all
their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

15. Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the
heavens are not clean in his sight.

15. All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a
merry heart hath a continual feast.

15. O LORD, thou knowest: remember me, and visit me, and revenge me
of my persecutors; take me not away in thy longsuffering: know that
for thy sake I have suffered rebuke.

16. Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the
coasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore
he smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he ripped
up.

16. And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their
brethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and
harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

16. And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook
Kidron.

16. How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh
iniquity like water?

16. Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure
and trouble therewith.

16. Thy words were found, and I did eat them; and thy word was unto
me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart: for I am called by thy name, O
LORD God of hosts.

17. In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began
Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in
Samaria.

17. So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their
brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

17. But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:
nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

17. I will shew thee, hear me; and that which
I have seen I will declare;

17. Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and
hatred therewith.

17. I sat not in the assembly of the mockers, nor rejoiced; I sat
alone because of thy hand: for thou hast filled me with indignation.

18. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,
who made Israel to sin.

18. And with them their
brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,
and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,
the porters.

18. And he brought into the house of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

18. Which wise men have told from their
fathers, and have not hid it:

18. A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger
appeaseth strife.

18. Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuseth
to be healed? wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar, and as waters
that fail?

19. And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahem
gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him
to confirm the kingdom in his hand.

19. So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound
with cymbals of brass;

19. And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

19. Unto whom alone the earth was
given, and no stranger passed among them.

19. The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the
way of the righteous is made plain.

19. Therefore thus saith the LORD, If thou return, then
will I bring thee again, and thou shalt stand before me: and if thou
take forth the precious from the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth: let
them return unto thee; but return not thou unto them.

20. And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty
men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the
king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not
there in the land.

20. And Zechariah, and Aziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and
Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth;

20. The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number
of years is hidden to the oppressor.

20. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his
mother.

20. And I will make thee unto this people a fenced brasen wall: and
they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against
thee: for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the
LORD.

21. And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

21. And Mattithiah, and
Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with
harps on the Sheminith to excel.

21. A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer
shall come upon him.

21. Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of
understanding walketh uprightly.

21. And I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I
will redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible.

22. And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned
in his stead.

22. And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed
about the song, because he was skilful.

22. He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is
waited for of the sword.

22. Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude
of counsellors they are established.

23. In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son
of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two
years.

23. And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

23. He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth
that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.

23. A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in
due season, how good is it!

24. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

24. And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were
doorkeepers for the ark.

24. Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail
against him, as a king ready to the battle.

24. The way of life is above to the
wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.

25. But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired
against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king’s
house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites:
and he killed him, and reigned in his room.

25. So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over
thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
the house of Obededom with joy.

25. For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth
himself against the Almighty.

25. The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will
establish the border of the widow.

26. And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did,
behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of
Israel.

26. And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks and
seven rams.

26. He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of
his bucklers:

26. The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but
the words of the pure are pleasant words.

27. In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the
son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned
twenty years.

27. And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the
Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master
of the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of
linen.

27. Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and
maketh collops of fat on his flanks.

27. He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that
hateth gifts shall live.

28. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

28. Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD
with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and
with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

28. And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man
inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.

28. The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of
the wicked poureth out evil things.

29. In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh,
and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and
carried them captive to Assyria.

29. And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came
to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out at
a window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in
her heart.

29. He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,
neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.

29. The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of
the righteous.

30. And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the
son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his
stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.

30. He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his
branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.

30. The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report
maketh the bones fat.

31. And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold,
they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

31. Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall
be his recompence.

31. The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.

32. In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel
began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.

32. It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall
not be green.

32. He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that
heareth reproof getteth understanding.

33. Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerusha,
the daughter of Zadok.

33. He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast
off his flower as the olive.

33. The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before
honour is humility.

34. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD: he did
according to all that his father Uzziah had done.

34. For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire
shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.

35. Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed
and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate
of the house of the LORD.

35. They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly
prepareth deceit.

36. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

37. In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the
king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.

38. And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in
his stead.