1. Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went
out to the cities of Judah, and brake the images in pieces, and cut
down the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out of
all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they had
utterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned,
every man to his possession, into their own cities.

1. I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a
maid?

1. In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed:
deliver me in thy righteousness.

1. The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught
him.

1. Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help; and stay on horses,
and trust in chariots, because they are many; and in horsemen, because
they are very strong; but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel,
neither seek the LORD!

1. At the same time, saith the LORD, will I be the God of all the
families of Israel, and they shall be my people.

1. And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, in
the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,
saying,

2. And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites
after their courses, every man according to his service, the priests
and Levites for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister,
and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of the
LORD.

2. For what portion of God is there from above? and what
inheritance of the Almighty from on high?

2. Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong
rock, for an house of defence to save me.

2. What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of
my vows?

2. Yet he also is wise, and will bring evil,
and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house of
the evildoers, and against the help of them that work iniquity.

2. Thus saith the LORD, The people which were left of the sword
found grace in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him
to rest.

2. Son of man, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his
multitude; Whom art thou like in thy greatness?

3. He appointed also the king’s portion of his substance for the
burnt offerings, to wit, for the morning and evening burnt offerings,
and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and
for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the LORD.

3. Is not destruction to
the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?

3. For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name’s
sake lead me, and guide me.

3. Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that
which destroyeth kings.

3. Now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses flesh,
and not spirit. When the LORD shall stretch out his hand, both he that
helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they
all shall fail together.

3. The LORD hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved
thee with an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have I
drawn thee.

3. Behold, the
Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with a
shadowing shroud, and of an high stature; and his top was among the
thick boughs.

4. Moreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give
the portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might be
encouraged in the law of the LORD.

4. Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?

4. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for
thou art my strength.

4. It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine;
nor for princes strong drink:

4. For thus hath the LORD spoken unto me, Like as the lion and the
young lion roaring on his prey, when a multitude of shepherds is
called forth against him, he will not be afraid of their voice, nor
abase himself for the noise of them: so shall the LORD of hosts come
down to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.

4. Again I will build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin of
Israel: thou shalt again be adorned with thy tabrets, and shalt go
forth in the dances of them that make merry.

4. The waters made him great, the deep set him up on high with her
rivers running round about his plants, and sent her little rivers unto
all the trees of the field.

5. And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of
Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil,
and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all
things brought they in abundantly.

5. If I have
walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit;

5. Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD
God of truth.

5. Lest they drink, and forget the
law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.

5. As birds flying, so will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem;
defending also he will deliver it; and passing over he will preserve
it.

5. Thou shalt yet plant vines upon the mountains of Samaria: the
planters shall plant, and shall eat them as common things.

5. Therefore his height was exalted above all the trees of the
field, and his boughs were multiplied, and his branches became long
because of the multitude of waters, when he shot forth.

6. And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in
the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep,
and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the LORD
their God, and laid them by heaps.

6. Let me
be weighed in an even balance that God may know mine integrity.

6. I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the
LORD.

6. Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto
those that be of heavy hearts.

6. Turn ye unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeply
revolted.

6. For there shall be a day, that the watchmen upon the mount
Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion unto the LORD
our God.

6. All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his boughs, and under
his branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young,
and under his shadow dwelt all great nations.

7. In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps,
and finished them in the seventh month.

7. If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked
after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands;

7. I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered
my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;

7. Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no
more.

7. For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver,
and his idols of gold, which your own hands have made unto you for a
sin.

7. For thus saith the LORD; Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout
among the chief of the nations: publish ye, praise ye, and say, O
LORD, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.

7. Thus was he fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches:
for his root was by great waters.

8. And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they
blessed the LORD, and his people Israel.

8. Then
let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out.

8. And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set
my feet in a large room.

8. Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are
appointed to destruction.

8. Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man;
and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shall flee
from the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.

8. Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them
from the coasts of the earth, and with them the blind and the lame,
the woman with child and her that travaileth with child together: a
great company shall return thither.

8. The cedars in the garden of God could not hide him: the fir trees
were not like his boughs, and the chestnut trees were not like his
branches; nor any tree in the garden of God was like unto him in his
beauty.

9. Then Hezekiah questioned with the priests and the Levites
concerning the heaps.

9. If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid
wait at my neighbour’s door;

9. Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is
consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

9. Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the
poor and needy.

9. And he shall pass over to his strong hold for fear, and his
princes shall be afraid of the ensign, saith the LORD, whose fire is
in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.

9. They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead
them: I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight
way, wherein they shall not stumble: for I am a father to Israel, and
Ephraim is my firstborn.

9. I have made him fair by the multitude of his branches: so that
all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied him.

10. And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him,
and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house
of the LORD, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty: for the
LORD hath blessed his people; and that which is left is this great
store.

10. Then let my wife grind unto
another, and let others bow down upon her.

10. For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my
strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.

10. Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above
rubies.

10. Hear the word of the LORD, O ye nations, and declare it in the
isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, and
keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock.

10. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast lifted up
thyself in height, and he hath shot up his top among the thick boughs,
and his heart is lifted up in his height;

11. Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the
LORD; and they prepared them,

11. For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be
punished by the judges.

11. I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my
neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me
without fled from me.

11. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he
shall have no need of spoil.

11. For the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from the hand
of him that was stronger than he.

11. I have therefore
delivered him into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen; he shall
surely deal with him: I have driven him out for his wickedness.

12. And brought in the offerings and
the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: over which Cononiah
the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was the next.

12. For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root
out all mine increase.

12. I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken
vessel.

12. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.

12. Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and
shall flow together to the goodness of the LORD, for wheat, and for
wine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of the herd: and
their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow any
more at all.

12. And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off,
and have left him: upon the mountains and in all the valleys his
branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the rivers of
the land; and all the people of the earth are gone down from his
shadow, and have left him.

13. And Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth,
and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were
overseers under the hand of Cononiah and Shimei his brother, at the
commandment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the house
of God.

13. If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my
maidservant, when they contended with me;

13. For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side:
while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away
my life.

13. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her
hands.

13. Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men and
old together: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will
comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.

13. Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven remain, and all
the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches:

14. And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter toward the
east, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute the
oblations of the LORD, and the most holy things.

14. What then shall I do
when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?

14. But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God.

14. She is like the merchants’ ships; she bringeth her food from
afar.

14. And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my
people shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith the LORD.

14. To the end
that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for their
height, neither shoot up their top among the thick boughs, neither
their trees stand up in their height, all that drink water: for they
are all delivered unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the
midst of the children of men, with them that go down to the pit.

15. And next him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah,
Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their set
office, to give to their brethren by courses, as well to the great as
to the small:

15. Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one
fashion us in the womb?

15. My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine
enemies, and from them that persecute me.

15. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her
household, and a portion to her maidens.

15. Thus saith the LORD; A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation,
and bitter weeping; Rahel weeping for her children refused to be
comforted for her children, because they were not.

15. Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when he went down to the
grave I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I
restrained the floods thereof, and the great waters were stayed: and I
caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field
fainted for him.

16. Beside their genealogy of males, from three years
old and upward, even unto every one that entereth into the house of
the LORD, his daily portion for their service in their charges
according to their courses;

16. If I have withheld the poor from their
desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail;

16. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy
mercies’ sake.

16. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her
hands she planteth a vineyard.

16. Thus saith the LORD; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine
eyes from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, saith the LORD; and
they shall come again from the land of the enemy.

16. I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I
cast him down to hell with them that descend into the pit: and all the
trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water,
shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth.

17. Both to the genealogy of the priests
by the house of their fathers, and the Levites from twenty years old
and upward, in their charges by their courses;

17. Or have
eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten
thereof;

17. Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let
the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.

17. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.

17. And there is hope in thine end, saith the LORD, that thy
children shall come again to their own border.

17. They also went down into hell with him unto them that be slain
with the sword; and they that were his arm, that dwelt under his
shadow in the midst of the heathen.

18. And to the
genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and
their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their set office
they sanctified themselves in holiness:

18. (For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a
father, and I have guided her from my mother’s womb;)

18. Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous
things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.

18. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth
not out by night.

18. I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus; Thou hast
chastised me, and I was chastised, as a bullock unaccustomed to the
yoke: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for thou art the LORD my
God.

18. To whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the
trees of Eden? yet shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Eden
unto the nether parts of the earth: thou shalt lie in the midst of the
uncircumcised with them that be slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh
and all his multitude, saith the Lord GOD.

19. Also of the sons of
Aaron the priests, which were in the fields of the suburbs of their
cities, in every several city, the men that were expressed by name, to
give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that were
reckoned by genealogies among the Levites.

19. If I have
seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering;

19. Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them
that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee
before the sons of men!

19. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the
distaff.

19. Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was
instructed, I smote upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, even
confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth.

20. And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and wrought that
which was good and right and truth before the LORD his God.

20. If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with
the fleece of my sheep;

20. Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the
pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the
strife of tongues.

20. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth
her hands to the needy.

20. Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a pleasant child? for since I
spake against him, I do earnestly remember him still: therefore my
bowels are troubled for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith
the LORD.

21. And in every work that he began in the service of the house of
God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did
it with all his heart, and prospered.

21. If I have lifted up my hand against the
fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate:

21. Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous
kindness in a strong city.

21. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her
household are clothed with scarlet.

21. Set thee up waymarks, make thee high heaps: set thine heart
toward the highway, even the way which thou wentest: turn again, O
virgin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.

22. Then let mine arm
fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.

22. For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes:
nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried
unto thee.

22. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk
and purple.

22. How long wilt thou go about, O thou backsliding daughter? for
the LORD hath created a new thing in the earth, A woman shall compass
a man.

23. For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of
his highness I could not endure.

23. O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the
faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.

23. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the
elders of the land.

23. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As yet they
shall use this speech in the land of Judah and in the cities thereof,
when I shall bring again their captivity; The LORD bless thee, O
habitation of justice, and mountain of holiness.

24. If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou
art my confidence;

24. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye
that hope in the LORD.

24. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles
unto the merchant.

24. And there shall dwell in Judah itself, and in all the cities
thereof together, husbandmen, and they that go forth with flocks.

25. If I rejoice because my wealth was great, and
because mine hand had gotten much;

25. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in
time to come.

25. For I have satiated the weary soul, and I have replenished every
sorrowful soul.

26. If I beheld the sun when it
shined, or the moon walking in brightness;

26. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law
of kindness.

26. Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet unto me.

27. And my heart hath
been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand:

27. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not
the bread of idleness.

27. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will sow the house
of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the
seed of beast.

28. This
also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have
denied the God that is above.

28. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also,
and he praiseth her.

28. And it shall come to pass, that like as I have watched over
them, to pluck up, and to break down, and to throw down, and to
destroy, and to afflict; so will I watch over them, to build, and to
plant, saith the LORD.

29. If I rejoice at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted
up myself when evil found him:

29. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them
all.

29. In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten a
sour grape, and the children’s teeth are set on edge.

30. Neither have I suffered my mouth
to sin by wishing a curse to his soul.

30. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that
feareth the LORD, she shall be praised.

30. But every one shall die for his own iniquity: every man that
eateth the sour grape, his teeth shall be set on edge.

31. If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his
flesh! we cannot be satisfied.

31. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise
her in the gates.




Ecclesiastes

or

The Preacher

31. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will make a new
covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:

32. The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors
to the traveller.

32. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the
day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of
Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was an husband unto
them, saith the LORD:

33. If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity
in my bosom:

33. But this shall be the covenant that I will
make with the house of Israel; After those days, saith the LORD, I
will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts;
and will be their God, and they shall be my people.

34. Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt
of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the
door?

34. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and every
man his brother, saying, Know the LORD: for they shall all know me,
from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the LORD: for
I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.

35. Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the
Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book.

35. Thus saith the LORD, which giveth the sun for a light by day,
and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night,
which divideth the sea when the waves thereof roar; The LORD of hosts
is his name:

36. Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown
to me.

36. If those ordinances depart from before me, saith
the LORD, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation
before me for ever.

37. I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince
would I go near unto him.

37. Thus saith the LORD; If heaven above can be measured, and the
foundations of the earth searched out beneath, I will also cast off
all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, saith the LORD.

38. If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof
complain;

38. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the city shall be
built to the LORD from the tower of Hananeel unto the gate of the
corner.

39. If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or
have caused the owners thereof to lose their life:

39. And the measuring line shall yet go forth over against it upon
the hill Gareb, and shall compass about to Goath.

40. Let thistles
grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley.

The words of Job are ended.

40. And the whole valley of the dead bodies, and of the ashes, and
all the fields unto the brook of Kidron, unto the corner of the horse
gate toward the east, shall be holy unto the LORD; it shall not be
plucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.