1. Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a
cord which thou lettest down?

1. Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver
him in time of trouble.

1. Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew their
strength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come near
together to judgment.

1. Now it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of
Nethaniah the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, and the princes of
the king, even ten men with him, came unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam
to Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together in Mizpah.

1. Afterward he brought me to the temple, and measured the posts,
six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other
side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle.

2. Canst thou put an hook into his
nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?

2. The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be
blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of
his enemies.

2. Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his
foot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over kings? he
gave them as the dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his bow.

2. Then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men that
were with him, and smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan
with the sword, and slew him, whom the king of Babylon had made
governor over the land.

2. And the breadth of the door was ten cubits; and the sides of the
door were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other
side: and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits: and the
breadth, twenty cubits.

3. Will he make many
supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee?

3. The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou
wilt make all his bed in his sickness.

3. He pursued them, and passed safely; even by the way that he had
not gone with his feet.

3. Ishmael also slew all the Jews that were with him, even with
Gedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans that were found there, and the
men of war.

3. Then went he inward, and measured the post of the door, two
cubits; and the door, six cubits; and the breadth of the door, seven
cubits.

4. Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant
for ever?

4. I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have
sinned against thee.

4. Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from the
beginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.

4. And it came to pass the second day after he had slain Gedaliah,
and no man knew it,

4. So he measured the length thereof, twenty cubits; and the
breadth, twenty cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, This
is the most holy place.

5. Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou
bind him for thy maidens?

5. Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name
perish?

5. The isles saw it, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid,
drew near, and came.

5. That there came certain from Shechem, from
Shiloh, and from Samaria, even fourscore men, having their beards
shaven, and their clothes rent, and having cut themselves, with
offerings and incense in their hand, to bring them to the house of the
LORD.

5. After he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the
breadth of every side chamber, four cubits, round about the house on
every side.

6. Shall the companions make a banquet of
him? shall they part him among the merchants?

6. And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth
iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.

6. They helped every one his neighbour; and every one said to his
brother, Be of good courage.

6. And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meet
them, weeping all along as he went: and it came to pass, as he met
them, he said unto them, Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.

6. And the side chambers were three, one over another, and thirty in
order; and they entered into the wall which was of the house for the
side chambers round about, that they might have hold, but they had not
hold in the wall of the house.

7. Canst thou fill
his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?

7. All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they
devise my hurt.

7. So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he that smootheth
with the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It is ready for the
sodering: and he fastened it with nails, that it should not be moved.

7. And it was so, when they came into the midst of the city, that
Ishmael the son of Nethaniah slew them, and cast them into the midst
of the pit, he, and the men that were with him.

7. And there was an enlarging, and a winding about still upward to
the side chambers: for the winding about of the house went still
upward round about the house: therefore the breadth of the house was
still upward, and so increased from the lowest chamber to the highest
by the midst.

8. Lay
thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.

8. An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that
he lieth he shall rise up no more.

8. But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the
seed of Abraham my friend.

8. But ten men were found among them that said unto Ishmael, Slay us
not: for we have treasures in the field, of wheat, and of barley, and
of oil, and of honey. So he forbare, and slew them not among their
brethren.

8. I saw also the height of the house round about: the foundations
of the side chambers were a full reed of six great cubits.

9. Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down
even at the sight of him?

9. Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat
of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.

9. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called
thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my
servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.

9. Now the pit wherein Ishmael had cast all the dead bodies of the
men, whom he had slain because of Gedaliah, was it which Asa the king
had made for fear of Baasha king of Israel: and Ishmael the son of
Nethaniah filled it with them that were slain.

9. The thickness of the wall, which was for the side chamber
without, was five cubits: and that which was left was the place of the
side chambers that were within.

10. None is so fierce that dare stir him
up: who then is able to stand before me?

10. But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I
may requite them.

10. Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy
God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold
thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

10. Then Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the people
that were in Mizpah, even the king’s daughters, and all the people
that remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had
committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam: and Ishmael the son of
Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to go over to the
Ammonites.

10. And between the chambers was the wideness of twenty cubits round
about the house on every side.

11. Who hath prevented me,
that I should repay him? whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.

11. By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth
not triumph over me.

11. Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be
ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive
with thee shall perish.

11. But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces that were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son
of Nethaniah had done,

11. And the doors of the side chambers were toward the place that
was left, one door toward the north, and another door toward the
south: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubits
round about.

12. I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely
proportion.

12. And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest
me before thy face for ever.

12. Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that
contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing,
and as a thing of nought.

12. Then they took all the men, and went to
fight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the great
waters that are in Gibeon.

12. Now the building that was before the separate place at the end
toward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building
was five cubits thick round about, and the length thereof ninety
cubits.

13. Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can come to him
with his double bridle?

13. Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to
everlasting. Amen, and Amen.

13. For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto
thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

13. Now it came to pass, that when all the people which were with
Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces that were with him, then they were glad.

13. So he measured the house, an hundred cubits long; and the
separate place, and the building, with the walls thereof, an hundred
cubits long;

14. Who can open the doors of his face? his
teeth are terrible round about.

14. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help
thee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.

14. So all the people that Ishmael had carried away captive from
Mizpah cast about and returned, and went unto Johanan the son of
Kareah.

14. Also the breadth of the face of the house, and of
the separate place toward the east, an hundred cubits.

15. His scales are his pride, shut up together as with a close seal.

15. Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having
teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt
make the hills as chaff.

15. But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight
men, and went to the Ammonites.

15. And he measured the length of the building over against the
separate place which was behind it, and the galleries thereof on the
one side and on the other side, an hundred cubits, with the inner
temple, and the porches of the court;

16. One is so near to another, that no air can come between them.

16. Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the
whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, and
shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.

16. Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces that were with him, all the remnant of the people whom he had
recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, after that
he had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, even mighty men of war, and
the women, and the children, and the eunuchs, whom he had brought
again from Gibeon:

16. The door posts, and the
narrow windows, and the galleries round about on their three stories,
over against the door, cieled with wood round about, and from the
ground up to the windows, and the windows were covered;

17. They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they
cannot be sundered.

17. When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their
tongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them, I the God of
Israel will not forsake them.

17. And they departed, and dwelt in the
habitation of Chimham, which is by Bethlehem, to go to enter into
Egypt,

17. To that
above the door, even unto the inner house, and without, and by all the
wall round about within and without, by measure.

18. By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the
eyelids of the morning.

18. I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of
the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry
land springs of water.

18. Because of the Chaldeans: for they were afraid of them,
because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah the son of
Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon made governor in the land.

18. And it was made with cherubims and palm trees, so that a palm
tree was between a cherub and a cherub; and every cherub had two
faces;

19. Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.

19. I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and
the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree,
and the pine, and the box tree together:

19. So that the face of a man was toward the palm tree on the
one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the
other side: it was made through all the house round about.

20. Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or
caldron.

20. That they may see, and
know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORD
hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.

20. From the ground unto above the door were cherubims and palm
trees made, and on the wall of the temple.

21. His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth.

21. Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong
reasons, saith the King of Jacob.

21. The posts of the temple were squared, and the face of the
sanctuary; the appearance of the one as the appearance of the other.

22. In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy
before him.

22. Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let
them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them,
and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.

22. The altar of wood was three cubits high, and the length thereof
two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the
walls thereof, were of wood: and he said unto me, This is the table
that is before the LORD.

23. The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in
themselves; they cannot be moved.

23. Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know
that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed,
and behold it together.

23. And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors.

24. His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the
nether millstone.

24. Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: an
abomination is he that chooseth you.

24. And the doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves; two
leaves for the one door, and two leaves for the other door.

25. When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of
breakings they purify themselves.

25. I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from the
rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon
princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay.

25. And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple,
cherubims and palm trees, like as were made upon the walls; and there
were thick planks upon the face of the porch without.

26. The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the
dart, nor the habergeon.

26. Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and
beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none that
sheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that
heareth your words.

26. And there were narrow windows and palm trees on the one side and
on the other side, on the sides of the porch, and upon the side
chambers of the house, and thick planks.

27. He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.

27. The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will
give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.

28. The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him
into stubble.

28. For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and there
was no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.

29. Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a
spear.

29. Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: their
molten images are wind and confusion.

30. Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things
upon the mire.

31. He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a
pot of ointment.

32. He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to
be hoary.

33. Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear.

34. He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children
of pride.