1. Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our
God, in the mountain of his holiness.

1. Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name of
Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear by
the name of the LORD, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not
in truth, nor in righteousness.

1. Against Moab thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Woe
unto Nebo! for it is spoiled: Kiriathaim is confounded and taken:
Misgab is confounded and dismayed.

1. Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end to the
coast of the way of Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazarenan, the
border of Damascus northward, to the coast of Hamath; for these are
his sides east and west; a portion for Dan.

2. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount
Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.

2. For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves
upon the God of Israel; The LORD of hosts is his name.

2. There shall be no more praise of Moab: in Heshbon they have
devised evil against it; come, and let us cut it off from being a
nation. Also thou shalt be cut down, O Madmen; the sword shall pursue
thee.

2. And by the border of Dan, from the east side unto the west side,
a portion for Asher.

3. God is known in her palaces for a refuge.

3. I have declared the former things from the beginning; and they
went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did them suddenly,
and they came to pass.

3. A voice of crying shall be from Horonaim, spoiling and great
destruction.

3. And by the border of Asher, from the east side even unto the west
side, a portion for Naphtali.

4. For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.

4. Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron
sinew, and thy brow brass;

4. Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.

4. And by the border of Naphtali, from the east side unto the west
side, a portion for Manasseh.

5. They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and
hasted away.

5. I have even from the beginning
declared it to thee; before it came to pass I shewed it thee: lest
thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and
my molten image, hath commanded them.

5. For in the going up of Luhith continual weeping shall go up; for
in the going down of Horonaim the enemies have heard a cry of
destruction.

5. And by the border of Manasseh, from the east side unto the west
side, a portion for Ephraim.

6. Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in
travail.

6. Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare it? I have
shewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou
didst not know them.

6. Flee, save your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.

6. And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even unto the
west side, a portion for Reuben.

7. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.

7. They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before the
day when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I
knew them.

7. For because thou hast trusted in thy works and in thy treasures,
thou shalt also be taken: and Chemosh shall go forth into captivity
with his priests and his princes together.

7. And by the border of Reuben, from the east side unto the west
side, a portion for Judah.

8. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of
hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.

8. Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that
time that thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal
very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.

8. And the spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shall
escape: the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be
destroyed, as the LORD hath spoken.

8. And by the border of Judah, from the east side unto the west
side, shall be the offering which ye shall offer of five and twenty
thousand reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the other parts,
from the east side unto the west side: and the sanctuary shall be in
the midst of it.

9. We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy
temple.

9. For my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise
will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.

9. Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for the
cities thereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein.

9. The oblation that ye shall offer unto the LORD shall be of five
and twenty thousand in length, and of ten thousand in breadth.

10. According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of
the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.

10. Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen
thee in the furnace of affliction.

10. Cursed be he that doeth the work of the LORD deceitfully, and
cursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood.

10. And for them, even for the priests, shall be this holy oblation;
toward the north five and twenty thousand in length, and toward the
west ten thousand in breadth, and toward the east ten thousand in
breadth, and toward the south five and twenty thousand in length: and
the sanctuary of the LORD shall be in the midst thereof.

11. Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad,
because of thy judgments.

11. For mine own sake, even for mine own sake, will I do it: for how
should my name be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another.

11. Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on
his lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither
hath he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, and
his scent is not changed.

11. It shall be for the priests that are sanctified of the sons of
Zadok; which have kept my charge, which went not astray when the
children of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray.

12. Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers
thereof.

12. Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I am he; I am
the first, I also am the last.

12. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will
send unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander, and shall
empty his vessels, and break their bottles.

12. And this oblation of the land that is offered shall be unto them
a thing most holy by the border of the Levites.

13. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may
tell it to the generation following.

13. Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my
right hand hath spanned the heavens: when I call unto them, they stand
up together.

13. And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was
ashamed of Bethel their confidence.

13. And over against the border of the priests the Levites shall
have five and twenty thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth:
all the length shall be five and twenty thousand, and the breadth ten
thousand.

14. For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide
even unto death.

14. All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hath
declared these things? The LORD hath loved him: he will do his
pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.

14. How say ye, We are mighty and strong men for the war?

14. And they shall not sell of it, neither exchange, nor alienate
the firstfruits of the land: for it is holy unto the LORD.

15. I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have brought
him, and he shall make his way prosperous.

15. Moab is spoiled, and gone up out of her cities, and his chosen young
men are gone down to the slaughter, saith the King, whose name is the
LORD of hosts.

15. And the five thousand, that are left in the breadth over against
the five and twenty thousand, shall be a profane place for the city,
for dwelling, and for suburbs: and the city shall be in the midst
thereof.

16. Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret
from the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the
Lord GOD, and his Spirit, hath sent me.

16. The calamity of Moab is near to come, and his affliction hasteth
fast.

16. And these shall be the measures thereof; the north side four
thousand and five hundred, and the south side four thousand and five
hundred, and on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and the
west side four thousand and five hundred.

17. Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I am
the LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by
the way that thou shouldest go.

17. All ye that are about him, bemoan him; and all ye that know his
name, say, How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod!

17. And the suburbs of the city shall be toward the north two
hundred and fifty, and toward the south two hundred and fifty, and
toward the east two hundred and fifty, and toward the west two hundred
and fifty.

18. O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy
peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea:

18. Thou daughter that dost inhabit Dibon, come down from thy glory,
and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon thee, and
he shall destroy thy strong holds.

18. And the residue in length over against the oblation of the holy
portion shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward: and
it shall be over against the oblation of the holy portion; and the
increase thereof shall be for food unto them that serve the city.

19. Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy
bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off
nor destroyed from before me.

19. O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and espy; ask him that
fleeth, and her that escapeth, and say, What is done?

19. And they that serve the city shall serve it out of all the
tribes of Israel.

20. Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice
of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the
earth; say ye, The LORD hath redeemed his servant Jacob.

20. Moab is
confounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; tell ye it in Arnon,
that Moab is spoiled,

20. All the oblation shall be five and twenty thousand by five and
twenty thousand: ye shall offer the holy oblation foursquare, with the
possession of the city.

21. And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts: he
caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock
also, and the waters gushed out.

21. And judgment is come upon the plain
country; upon Holon, and upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath,

21. And the residue shall be for the prince, on the one side and on
the other of the holy oblation, and of the possession of the city,
over against the five and twenty thousand of the oblation toward the
east border, and westward over against the five and twenty thousand
toward the west border, over against the portions for the prince: and
it shall be the holy oblation; and the sanctuary of the house shall be
in the midst thereof.

22. There is no peace, saith the LORD, unto the wicked.

22. And
upon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon Bethdiblathaim,

22. Moreover from the possession of the Levites, and from the
possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the
prince’s, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin,
shall be for the prince.

23. And upon
Kiriathaim, and upon Bethgamul, and upon Bethmeon,

23. As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side unto the west
side, Benjamin shall have a portion.

24. And upon
Kerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of the land of Moab,
far or near.

24. And by the border of Benjamin, from the east side unto the west
side, Simeon shall have a portion.

25. The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, saith the
LORD.

25. And by the border of Simeon, from the east side unto the west
side, Issachar a portion.

26. Make ye him drunken: for he magnified himself against the LORD:
Moab also shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision.

26. And by the border of Issachar, from the east side unto the west
side, Zebulun a portion.

27. For was not Israel a derision unto thee? was he found among
thieves? for since thou spakest of him, thou skippedst for joy.

27. And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side unto the west
side, Gad a portion.

28. O ye that dwell in Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in the
rock, and be like the dove that maketh her nest in the sides of the
hole’s mouth.

28. And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the
border shall be even from Tamar unto the waters of strife in Kadesh,
and to the river toward the great sea.

29. We have heard the pride of Moab, (he is exceeding proud) his
loftiness, and his arrogancy, and his pride, and the haughtiness of
his heart.

29. This is the land which ye shall divide by lot unto the tribes of
Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the Lord
GOD.

30. I know his wrath, saith the LORD; but it shall not be so; his
lies shall not so effect it.

30. And these are the goings out of the city on the north side, four
thousand and five hundred measures.

31. Therefore will I howl for Moab, and I will cry out for all Moab;
mine heart shall mourn for the men of Kirheres.

31. And the gates of the city shall be after the names of the tribes
of Israel: three gates northward; one gate of Reuben, one gate of
Judah, one gate of Levi.

32. O vine of Sibmah, I will weep for thee with the weeping of
Jazer: thy plants are gone over the sea, they reach even to the sea of
Jazer: the spoiler is fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thy
vintage.

32. And at the east side four thousand and five hundred: and three
gates; and one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan.

33. And joy and gladness is taken from the plentiful field, and from
the land of Moab, and I have caused wine to fail from the winepresses:
none shall tread with shouting; their shouting shall be no shouting.

33. And at the south side four thousand and five hundred measures:
and three gates; one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of
Zebulun.

34. From the cry of Heshbon even unto Elealeh, and even unto Jahaz,
have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even unto Horonaim, as an
heifer of three years old: for the waters also of Nimrim shall be
desolate.

34. At the west side four thousand and five hundred, with their
three gates; one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali.

35. Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, saith the LORD, him that
offereth in the high places, and him that burneth incense to his gods.

35. It was round about eighteen thousand measures: and the name of
the city from that day shall be, The LORD is there.




The Book of Daniel

36. Therefore mine heart shall sound for Moab like pipes, and mine
heart shall sound like pipes for the men of Kirheres: because the
riches that he hath gotten are perished.

37. For every head shall be bald, and every beard clipped: upon all
the hands shall be cuttings, and upon the loins sackcloth.

38. There shall be lamentation generally upon all the housetops of
Moab, and in the streets thereof: for I have broken Moab like a vessel
wherein is no pleasure, saith the LORD.

39. They shall howl, saying, How is it broken down! how hath Moab
turned the back with shame! so shall Moab be a derision and a
dismaying to all them about him.

40. For thus saith the LORD; Behold, he shall fly as an eagle, and
shall spread his wings over Moab.

41. Kerioth is taken, and the strong holds are surprised, and the
mighty men’s hearts in Moab at that day shall be as the heart of a
woman in her pangs.

42. And Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, because he hath
magnified himself against the LORD.

43. Fear, and the pit, and the snare, shall be upon thee, O
inhabitant of Moab, saith the LORD.

44. He that fleeth from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he
that getteth up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for I will
bring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation, saith the
LORD.

45. They that fled stood under the shadow of Heshbon because of the
force: but a fire shall come forth out of Heshbon, and a flame from
the midst of Sihon, and shall devour the corner of Moab, and the crown
of the head of the tumultuous ones.

46. Woe be unto thee, O Moab! the people of Chemosh perisheth: for
thy sons are taken captives, and thy daughters captives.

47. Yet will I bring again the captivity of Moab in the latter days,
saith the LORD. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.