1. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.

1. Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into
singing, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for
more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married
wife, saith the LORD.

2. Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.

2. Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the
curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and
strengthen thy stakes;

3. For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after
my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.

3. For thou shalt break forth on the right
hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and
make the desolate cities to be inhabited.

4. Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my
soul.

4. Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thou
confounded; for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forget
the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy
widowhood any more.

5. He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy
truth.

5. For thy Maker is thine husband; the LORD of hosts is his name;
and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; The God of the whole earth
shall he be called.

6. I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O
LORD; for it is good.

6. For the LORD hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in
spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.

7. For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath
seen his desire upon mine enemies.

7. For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies
will I gather thee.

8. In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the LORD thy
Redeemer.

9. For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I have sworn
that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have I
sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee.

10. For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my
kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my
peace be removed, saith the LORD that hath mercy on thee.

11. O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted,
behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thy
foundations with sapphires.

12. And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of
carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.

13. And all thy children shall be taught of the LORD; and great
shall be the peace of thy children.

14. In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far
from oppression; for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for it
shall not come near thee.

15. Behold, they shall surely gather together, but not by me:
whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake.

16. Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the
fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have
created the waster to destroy.

17. No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every
tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and their
righteousness is of me, saith the LORD.