1. Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he
fighting daily oppresseth me.

1. Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for my
salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.

2. Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that
fight against me, O thou most High.

2. Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that
layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and
keepeth his hand from doing any evil.

3. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.

3. Neither let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself to
the LORD, speak, saying, The LORD hath utterly separated me from his
people: neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree.

4. In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will
not fear what flesh can do unto me.

4. For thus saith the LORD unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths,
and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant;

5. Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me
for evil.

5. Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls a
place and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give
them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.

6. They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark
my steps, when they wait for my soul.

6. Also the sons of the stranger, that join themselves to the LORD,
to serve him, and to love the name of the LORD, to be his servants,
every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold
of my covenant;

7. Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the
people, O God.

7. Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and
make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and
their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house
shall be called an house of prayer for all people.

8. Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle:
are they not in thy book?

8. The Lord GOD, which gathereth the outcasts of Israel saith, Yet
will I gather others to him, beside those that are gathered unto him.

9. When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I
know; for God is for me.

9. All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in
the forest.

10. In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his
word.

10. His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb
dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

11. In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do
unto me.

11. Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and they
are shepherds that cannot understand: they all look to their own way,
every one for his gain, from his quarter.

12. Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.

12. Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves
with strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, and much more
abundant.

13. For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou
deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light
of the living?