1. Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and
kissed him, and said, Is it not because the LORD hath anointed thee to
be captain over his inheritance?

1. And it came to pass after this, that the king of the children of
Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.

1. And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon
concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard
questions.

1. And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, and
sent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to
them that brought up Ahab’s children, saying,

1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel
fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.

1. And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for to Shechem were all Israel come
to make him king.

1. Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, weeping and
casting himself down before the house of God, there assembled unto him
out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children:
for the people wept very sore.

1. Now those that sealed were, Nehemiah, the Tirshatha, the son of
Hachaliah, and Zidkijah,

1. And the king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon the
isles of the sea.

1. My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon
myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.

1. Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in
times of trouble?

1. The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a
foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.

1. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a
stinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for
wisdom and honour.

1. Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grievousness which they have prescribed;

1. Hear ye the word which the LORD speaketh unto you, O house of
Israel:

1. Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that was above the
head of the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphire
stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne.

1. In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed
unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was
true, but the time appointed was long: and he understood the thing,
and had understanding of the vision.

1. Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself:
according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars;
according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images.

2. When thou art departed from me
to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel’s sepulchre in the
border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses
which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left
the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do
for my son?

2. Then said David, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, as his father shewed kindness unto me. And David sent to
comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David’s
servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.

2. And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels
that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones: and when
she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her
heart.

2. Now as soon as this
letter cometh to you, seeing your master’s sons are with you, and
there are with you chariots and horses, a fenced city also, and
armour;

2. And the Philistines followed hard after Saul, and after his sons;
and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the
sons of Saul.

2. And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was in
Egypt, whither he fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heard
it, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.

2. And Shechaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam,
answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and
have taken strange wives of the people of the land: yet now there is
hope in Israel concerning this thing.

2. Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,

2. And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the
declaration of the greatness of Mordecai, whereunto the king advanced
him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings
of Media and Persia?

2. I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou
contendest with me.

2. The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be
taken in the devices that they have imagined.

2. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

2. A wise man’s heart is at his right hand; but a fool’s heart at
his left.

2. To turn aside the needy
from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people,
that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!

2. Thus saith the LORD, Learn not the way of the heathen,
and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the heathen are
dismayed at them.

2. And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in
between the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hand with
coals of fire from between the cherubims, and scatter them over the
city. And he went in in my sight.

2. In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks.

2. Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall
break down their altars, he shall spoil their images.

3. Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou
shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men
going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another
carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:

3. And the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their
lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath
sent comforters unto thee? hath not David rather sent his servants
unto thee, to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?

3. And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not any thing
hid from the king, which he told her not.

3. Look even out the best and meetest of your master’s sons,
and set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.

3. And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him,
and he was wounded of the archers.

3. And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and
spake to Rehoboam, saying,

3. Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all
the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of
my lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God; and
let it be done according to the law.

3. Pashur,
Amariah, Malchijah,

3. For Mordecai the Jew was next unto king
Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the multitude of
his brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and speaking peace to
all his seed.




The Book of Job

3. Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou
shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel
of the wicked?

3. For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, and blesseth the
covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth.

3. The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but
he casteth away the substance of the wicked.

3. Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom
faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.

3. And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the
desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help?
and where will ye leave your glory?

3. For the customs of the people are vain: for one cutteth a tree
out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman, with the axe.

3. Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when the
man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.

3. I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth,
neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were
fulfilled.

3. For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not
the LORD; what then should a king do to us?

4. And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread;
which thou shalt receive of their hands.

4. Wherefore Hanun took David’s servants, and shaved off the one
half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even
to their buttocks, and sent them away.

4. And when the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon’s wisdom, and
the house that he had built,

4. But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, two kings
stood not before him: how then shall we stand?

4. Then said Saul to his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me
through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his
armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a sword,
and fell upon it.

4. Thy father made our yoke grievous: now
therefore ease thou somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father, and
his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve thee.

4. Arise; for this matter belongeth unto thee: we also will be with
thee: be of good courage, and do it.

4. Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,

4. Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man
seeth?

4. The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek
after God: God is not in all his thoughts.

4. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of
the diligent maketh rich.

4. If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy
place; for yielding pacifieth great offences.

4. Without me they shall bow
down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain. For all
this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out
still.

4. They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails
and with hammers, that it move not.

4. Then the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub, and stood
over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the
cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD’s glory.

4. And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by
the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel;

4. They have spoken
words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth
up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.

5. After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the
garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art
come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets
coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret, and a
pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:

5. When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them, because the
men were greatly ashamed: and the king said, Tarry at Jericho until
your beards be grown, and then return.

5. And the meat of his table, and the
sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and
their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up
unto the house of the LORD; there was no more spirit in her.

5. And he that was
over the house, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and
the bringers up of the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are thy
servants, and will do all that thou shalt bid us; we will not make any
king: do thou that which is good in thine eyes.

5. And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell
likewise on the sword, and died.

5. And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. And
the people departed.

5. Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all
Israel, to swear that they should do according to this word. And they
sware.

5. Harim,
Meremoth, Obadiah,

5. Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man’s
days,

5. His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of
his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.

5. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth
in harvest is a son that causeth shame.

5. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error
which proceedeth from the ruler:

5. O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is
mine indignation.

5. They are upright as the palm tree, but speak not: they must needs
be borne, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them; for they
cannot do evil, neither also is it in them to do good.

5. And the sound of the cherubims’ wings was heard even to the outer
court, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh.

5. Then I lifted up
mine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen,
whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz:

5. The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of
Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests
thereof that rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is
departed from it.

6. And the
Spirit of the LORD will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with
them, and shalt be turned into another man.

6. And when the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David,
the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrehob and the
Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand footmen, and of king Maacah a
thousand men, and of Ishtob twelve thousand men.

6. And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in
mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom.

6. Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If ye be
mine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of the
men your master’s sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to morrow this
time. Now the king’s sons, being seventy persons, were with the great
men of the city, which brought them up.

6. So Saul died, and his three sons, and all his house died
together.

6. And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood
before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel
give ye me to return answer to this people?

6. Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went into the
chamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came thither, he
did eat no bread, nor drink water: for he mourned because of the
transgression of them that had been carried away.

6. Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,

6. That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest
after my sin?

6. He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall
never be in adversity.

6. Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth
the mouth of the wicked.

6. Folly is set in great dignity,
and the rich sit in low place.

6. I will send him against an hypocritical nation, and against the
people of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and to
take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.

6. Forasmuch as there is none like unto thee, O LORD; thou art
great, and thy name is great in might.

6. And it came to pass, that when he had commanded the man clothed
with linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between
the cherubims; then he went in, and stood beside the wheels.

6. His body also
was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and
his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour to
polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a
multitude.

6. It shall be also carried unto Assyria for a present to king
Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his
own counsel.

7. And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do
as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.

7. And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mighty men.

7. Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had
seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me: thy wisdom and
prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard.

7. And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took
the king’s sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads in
baskets, and sent him them to Jezreel.

7. And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that
they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, then they forsook
their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

7. And they spake unto
him, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and
speak good words to them, they will be thy servants for ever.

7. And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem unto
all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves
together unto Jerusalem;

7. Meshullam,
Abijah, Mijamin,

7. Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is
none that can deliver out of thine hand.

7. His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his
tongue is mischief and vanity.

7. The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked
shall rot.

7. I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants
upon the earth.

7. Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but
it is in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few.

7. Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? for to thee doth it
appertain: forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations, and in
all their kingdoms, there is none like unto thee.

7. And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between the
cherubims unto the fire that was between the cherubims, and took
thereof, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen:
who took it, and went out.

7. And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with me
saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that they
fled to hide themselves.

7. As for Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water.

8. And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will
come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice
sacrifices of peace offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, till I
come to thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.

8. And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
at the entering in of the gate: and the Syrians of Zoba, and of Rehob,
and Ishtob, and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.

8. Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom.

8. And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have
brought the heads of the king’s sons. And he said, Lay ye them in two
heaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.

8. And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to
strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount
Gilboa.

8. But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him, and took
counsel with the young men that were brought up with him, that stood
before him.

8. And that whosoever would not come within
three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders,
all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from the
congregation of those that had been carried away.

8. Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these were the
priests.

8. Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about;
yet thou dost destroy me.

8. He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret
places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against
the poor.

8. The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool
shall fall.

8. He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an
hedge, a serpent shall bite him.

8. For he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings?

8. But they are altogether brutish and foolish: the stock is a
doctrine of vanities.

8. And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a man’s hand
under their wings.

8. Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there
remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me into
corruption, and I retained no strength.

8. The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be
destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars;
and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall
on us.

9. And it was so, that when he had turned his back to go from
Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass
that day.

9. When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before
and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians:

9. Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee, to set thee
on the throne of Israel: because the LORD loved Israel for ever,
therefore made he thee king, to do judgment and justice.

9. And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood,
and said to all the people, Ye be righteous: behold, I conspired
against my master, and slew him: but who slew all these?

9. And when they had stripped him, they took his head, and his
armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to
carry tidings unto their idols, and to the people.

9. And he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may return
answer to this people, which have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhat
the yoke that thy father did put upon us?

9. Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves
together unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, on
the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the street
of the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for the
great rain.

9. And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the
sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;

9. Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and
wilt thou bring me into dust again?

9. He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait
to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into
his net.

9. He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth
his ways shall be known.

9. Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that
cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.

9. Is not
Calno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is not Samaria as
Damascus?

9. Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold from
Uphaz, the work of the workman, and of the hands of the founder: blue
and purple is their clothing: they are all the work of cunning men.

9. And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the cherubims, one
wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and the
appearance of the wheels was as the colour of a beryl stone.

9. Yet heard I the voice of his words: and when I heard the voice of
his words, then was I in a deep sleep on my face, and my face toward
the ground.

9. O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they
stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not
overtake them.

10. And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of
prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he
prophesied among them.

10. And the rest of the people he
delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother, that he might put them
in array against the children of Ammon.

10. And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and
of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more
such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to
king Solomon.

10. Know
now that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of the word of the
LORD, which the LORD spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the LORD
hath done that which he spake by his servant Elijah.

10. And they put his armour in the house of their gods, and fastened
his head in the temple of Dagon.

10. And the young men
that were brought up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou
answer the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our
yoke heavy, but make thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thou
say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father’s
loins.

10. And Ezra the priest stood up, and said unto them, Ye have
transgressed, and have taken strange wives, to increase the trespass
of Israel.

10. And their brethren, Shebaniah,
Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,

10. Hast thou not poured me out
as milk, and curdled me like cheese?

10. He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by
his strong ones.

10. He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool
shall fall.

10. If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he
put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.

10. As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, and
whose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria;

10. But the LORD is the true God, he is the living God, and an
everlasting king: at his wrath the earth shall tremble, and the
nations shall not be able to abide his indignation.

10. And as for their appearances, they four had one likeness, as if
a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.

10. And, behold, an hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and
upon the palms of my hands.

10. It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people
shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in
their two furrows.

11. And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that,
behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to
another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also
among the prophets?

11. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will come and help thee.

11. And the navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir,
brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees, and precious
stones.

11. So Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel,
and all his great men, and his kinsfolks, and his priests, until he
left him none remaining.

11. And when all Jabeshgilead heard all that the Philistines had
done to Saul,

11. For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more
to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise
you with scorpions.

11. Now therefore make confession unto the LORD God of your fathers,
and do his pleasure: and separate yourselves from the people of the
land, and from the strange wives.

11. Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah,

11. Thou hast clothed me with
skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews.

11. He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his
face; he will never see it.

11. The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence
covereth the mouth of the wicked.

11. Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler
is no better.

11. Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to
Jerusalem and her idols?

11. Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the
heavens and the earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and from
under these heavens.

11. When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turned not
as they went, but to the place whither the head looked they followed
it; they turned not as they went.

11. And he said unto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved, understand
the words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright: for unto thee am
I now sent.

And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling.

11. And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread
out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make
Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods.

12. And one of the same place answered and
said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul
also among the prophets?

12. Be of good courage, and let us play the men for our people, and
for the cities of our God: and the LORD do that which seemeth him
good.

12. And the king made of the almug trees pillars for the house of
the LORD, and for the king’s house, harps also and psalteries for
singers: there came no such almug trees, nor were seen unto this day.

12. And he arose and departed, and came to Samaria. And as he was at
the shearing house in the way,

12. They arose, all the valiant men, and took away the
body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh,
and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.

12. So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third
day, as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day.

12. Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice,
As thou hast said, so must we do.

12. Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,

12. Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath
preserved my spirit.

12. Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.

12. Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.

12. The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but the lips of a
fool will swallow up himself.

12. Wherefore it shall come to pass, that
when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount Zion and on
Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of
Assyria, and the glory of his high looks.

12. He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the
world by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heavens by his
discretion.

12. And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and
their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, even the
wheels that they four had.

12. Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day
that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself
before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words.

12. Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your
fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain
righteousness upon you.

13. And when he had made an end of
prophesying, he came to the high place.

13. And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him, unto the
battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him.

13. And king Solomon gave unto the queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that which Solomon gave her of his royal
bounty.

So she turned and went to her own country, she and her servants.

13. Jehu met with the brethren of
Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We are
the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of the
king and the children of the queen.

13. So Saul died for his transgression which he committed against
the LORD, even against the word of the LORD, which he kept not, and
also for asking counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to enquire
of it;

13. And the king answered them roughly; and king Rehoboam forsook
the counsel of the old men,

13. But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we
are not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or
two: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.

13. Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.

13. And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this
is with thee.

13. Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his
heart, Thou wilt not require it.

13. In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but
a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.

13. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the
end of his talk is mischievous madness.

13. For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by
my wisdom; for I am prudent: and I have removed the bounds of the
people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the
inhabitants like a valiant man:

13. When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters in
the heavens, and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the
earth; he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth the wind out
of his treasures.

13. As for the wheels, it was cried unto them in my hearing, O
wheel.

13. But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and
twenty days: but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help
me; and I remained there with the kings of Persia.

13. Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have
eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the
multitude of thy mighty men.

14. And Saul’s uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went
ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no
where, we came to Samuel.

14. And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,
then fled they also before Abishai, and entered into the city. So Joab
returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem.

14. Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six
hundred threescore and six talents of gold,

14. And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and slew
them at the pit of the shearing house, even two and forty men; neither
left he any of them.

14. And enquired not of the LORD: therefore he slew him, and
turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.

14. And answered them after the advice
of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will
add thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise
you with scorpions.

14. Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all
them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed
times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges thereof,
until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.

14. The chief of the people; Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zatthu, Bani,

14. If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from
mine iniquity.

14. Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to
requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou
art the helper of the fatherless.

14. Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near
destruction.

14. A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be;
and what shall be after him, who can tell him?

14. And my hand hath found as a nest
the riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that are left,
have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing,
or opened the mouth, or peeped.

14. Every man is brutish in his knowledge: every founder is
confounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, and
there is no breath in them.

14. And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of a
cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third the
face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.

14. Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy
people in the latter days: for yet the vision is for many days.

14. Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy
fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day
of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children.

15. And Saul’s uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said
unto you.

15. And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel,
they gathered themselves together.

15. Beside that he had
of the merchantmen, and of the traffick of the spice merchants, and of
all the kings of Arabia, and of the governors of the country.

15. And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son
of Rechab coming to meet him: and he saluted him, and said to him, Is
thine heart right, as my heart is with thy heart? And Jehonadab
answered, It is. If it be, give me thine hand. And he gave him his
hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.

15. So the king hearkened not unto the people: for the cause was of
God, that the LORD might perform his word, which he spake by the hand
of Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

15. Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah
were employed about this matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai the
Levite helped them.

15. Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,

15. If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I
not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine
affliction;

15. Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his
wickedness till thou find none.

15. The rich man’s wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the
poor is their poverty.

15. The labour of
the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to
go to the city.

15. Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? or
shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? as if the
rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the
staff should lift up itself, as if it were no wood.

15. They are vanity, and the work of errors: in the time of their
visitation they shall perish.

15. And the cherubims were lifted up. This is the living creature
that I saw by the river of Chebar.

15. And when he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face toward
the ground, and I became dumb.

15. So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in
a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.

16. And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses
were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he
told him not.

16. And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond
the river: and they came to Helam; and Shobach the captain of the host
of Hadarezer went before them.

16. And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of gold went to one target.

16. And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So they
made him ride in his chariot.

16. And when all Israel saw that the king would not hearken unto
them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in
David? and we have none inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to
your tents, O Israel: and now, David, see to thine own house. So all
Israel went to their tents.

16. And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest,
with certain chief of the fathers, after the house of their fathers,
and all of them by their names, were separated, and sat down in the
first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.

16. Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,

16. For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion:
and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me.

16. The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out
of his land.

16. The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the
wicked to sin.

16. Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes
eat in the morning!

16. Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat
ones leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the
burning of a fire.

16. The portion of Jacob is not like them: for he is the former of
all things; and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: The LORD of
hosts is his name.

16. And when the cherubims went, the wheels went by them: and when
the cherubims lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the
same wheels also turned not from beside them.

16. And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men touched
my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him that
stood before me, O my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned upon
me, and I have retained no strength.

17. And Samuel called the people together unto the LORD to Mizpeh;

17. And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together, and
passed over Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves
in array against David, and fought with him.

17. And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pound of
gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the
forest of Lebanon.

17. And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Ahab
in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the
LORD, which he spake to Elijah.

17. But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

17. And they made an end with all the men that had taken strange
wives by the first day of the first month.

17. Ater,
Hizkijah, Azzur,

17. Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine
indignation upon me; changes and war are against me.

17. LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt
prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:

17. He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that
refuseth reproof erreth.

17. Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is
the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength,
and not for drunkenness!

17. And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One
for a flame: and it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briers in
one day;

17. Gather up thy wares out of the land, O inhabitant of the
fortress.

17. When they stood, these stood; and when they were lifted up,
these lifted up themselves also: for the spirit of the living creature
was in them.

17. For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord?
for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither
is there breath left in me.

18. And said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the LORD God of
Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the
hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of
them that oppressed you:

18. And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew the men of
seven hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty thousand horsemen,
and smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there.

18. Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it
with the best gold.

18. And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them,
Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.

18. Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram that was over the tribute; and
the children of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. But king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to
Jerusalem.

18. And among the sons of the priests there were found that had
taken strange wives: namely, of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak,
and his brethren; Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.

18. Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai,

18. Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh
that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!

18. To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the
earth may no more oppress.

18. He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a
slander, is a fool.

18. By much slothfulness the building
decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth
through.

18. And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his
fruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when a
standard-bearer fainteth.

18. For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will sling out the
inhabitants of the land at this once, and will distress them, that
they may find it so.

18. Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold of
the house, and stood over the cherubims.

18. Then there came again and touched me one like the appearance of
a man, and he strengthened me,

19. And ye have this day rejected your God,
who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your
tribulations; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us.
Now therefore present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes, and
by your thousands.

19. And when all the kings that were servants to Hadarezer saw that
they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and
served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon any
more.

19. The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round
behind: and there were stays on either side on the place of the seat,
and two lions stood beside the stays.

19. Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his
servants, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a great
sacrifice to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall not
live. But Jehu did it in subtilty, to the intent that he might destroy
the worshippers of Baal.

19. And Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.

19. And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives;
and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass.

19. Hariph, Anathoth,
Nebai,

19. I should
have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from
the womb to the grave.

19. In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that
refraineth his lips is wise.

19. A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but money
answereth all things.

19. And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a
child may write them.

19. Woe is me for my hurt! my wound is grievous; but I said, Truly
this is a grief, and I must bear it.

19. And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the
earth in my sight: when they went out, the wheels also were beside
them, and every one stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD’s
house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

19. And said, O man greatly beloved,
fear not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he
had spoken unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak;
for thou hast strengthened me.

20. And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come
near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.

20. And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other
upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom.

20. And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal. And they
proclaimed it.

20. And of the sons of Immer; Hanani, and Zebadiah.

20. Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,

20. Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may
take comfort a little,

20. The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the
wicked is little worth.

20. Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the
rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice,
and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.

20. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of
Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more
again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the LORD, the
Holy One of Israel, in truth.

20. My tabernacle is spoiled, and all my cords are broken: my
children are gone forth of me, and they are not: there is none to
stretch forth my tent any more, and to set up my curtains.

20. This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel
by the river of Chebar; and I knew that they were the cherubims.

20. Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee? and now
will I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am gone
forth, lo, the prince of Grecia shall come.

21. When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their
families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was
taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.

21. And all king Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all
the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold;
none were of silver: it was nothing accounted of in the days of
Solomon.

21. And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of
Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And they
came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from one
end to another.

21. And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah,
and Jehiel, and Uzziah.

21. Meshezabeel, Zadok,
Jaddua,

21. Before I go whence I shall not return,
even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death;

21. The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of
wisdom.

21. The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the
mighty God.

21. For the pastors are become brutish, and have not sought the
LORD: therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be
scattered.

21. Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings; and
the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.

21. But I will shew thee that which is noted in the scripture of
truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, but
Michael your prince.

22. Therefore they enquired of the LORD further, if the man should
yet come thither. And the LORD answered, Behold he hath hid himself
among the stuff.

22. For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of
Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tharshish, bringing gold,
and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

22. And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth
vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forth
vestments.

22. And of the sons of Pashur; Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael,
Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.

22. Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,

22. A land of
darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any
order, and where the light is as darkness.

22. The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no
sorrow with it.

22. For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a
remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflow
with righteousness.

22. Behold, the noise of the bruit is come, and a great commotion
out of the north country, to make the cities of Judah desolate, and a
den of dragons.

22. And the likeness of their faces was the same faces which I saw
by the river of Chebar, their appearances and themselves: they went
every one straight forward.

23. And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the
people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and
upward.

23. So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches
and for wisdom.

23. And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house
of Baal, and said unto the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look that
there be here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but the
worshippers of Baal only.

23. Also of the Levites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the same
is Kelita,) Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.

23. Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,

23. It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of
understanding hath wisdom.

23. For the Lord GOD of hosts shall make a consumption, even
determined, in the midst of all the land.

23. O LORD, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not
in man that walketh to direct his steps.

24. And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom the LORD hath
chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the
people shouted, and said, God save the king.

24. And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which
God had put in his heart.

24. And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings,
Jehu appointed fourscore men without, and said, If any of the men whom
I have brought into your hands escape, he that letteth him go, his
life shall be for the life of him.

24. Of the singers also; Eliashib: and of the porters; Shallum, and
Telem, and Uri.

24. Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek,

24. The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire
of the righteous shall be granted.

24. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, O my people that
dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall smite thee
with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the manner
of Egypt.

24. O LORD, correct me, but with judgment; not in thine anger, lest
thou bring me to nothing.

25. Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote
it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD. And Samuel sent all the
people away, every man to his house.

25. And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and
vessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses, and
mules, a rate year by year.

25. And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering
the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains,
Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote them with
the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out,
and went to the city of the house of Baal.

25. Moreover of Israel: of the sons of Parosh; Ramiah, and Jeziah,
and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.

25. Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,

25. As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the
righteous is an everlasting foundation.

25. For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease,
and mine anger in their destruction.

25. Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not, and upon
the families that call not on thy name: for they have eaten up Jacob,
and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habitation
desolate.

26. And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a
band of men, whose hearts God had touched.

26. And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had
a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen,
whom he bestowed in the cities for chariots, and with the king at
Jerusalem.

26. And they brought forth the images out of the house of Baal, and
burned them.

26. And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and
Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliah.

26. And Ahijah, Hanan, Anan,

26. As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the
sluggard to them that send him.

26. And the LORD of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according
to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb: and as his rod was
upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.

27. But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And
they despised him, and brought no presents. But he held his peace.

27. And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and
cedars made he to be as the sycomore trees that are in the vale, for
abundance.

27. And they brake down the image of Baal, and brake down the house
of Baal, and made it a draught house unto this day.

27. And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and
Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.

27. Malluch, Harim, Baanah.

27. The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the
wicked shall be shortened.

27. And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be
taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and
the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.

28. And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the
king’s merchants received the linen yarn at a price.

28. Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.

28. Of the sons also of Bebai; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and
Athlai.

28. And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the
porters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all they that had separated
themselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, their
wives, their sons, and their daughters, every one having knowledge,
and having understanding;

28. The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation
of the wicked shall perish.

28. He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath
laid up his carriages:

29. And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred
shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty: and so for
all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they
bring them out by their means.

29. Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit, the golden
calves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dan.

29. And of the sons of Bani; Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub,
and Sheal, and Ramoth.

29. They clave to their brethren, their
nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God’s
law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and
do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord, and his judgments and
his statutes;

29. The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction
shall be to the workers of iniquity.

29. They are gone over the passage: they have
taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is
fled.

30. And the LORD said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in
executing that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the
house of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children of
the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.

30. And of the sons of Pahathmoab; Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah,
Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.

30. And that we would not give our daughters unto the
people of the land, not take their daughters for our sons:

30. The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not
inhabit the earth.

30. Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it to be heard
unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.

31. But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the LORD God of
Israel with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins of
Jeroboam, which made Israel to sin.

31. And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah,
Shimeon,

31. And
if the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbath
day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the sabbath, or on
the holy day: and that we would leave the seventh year, and the
exaction of every debt.

31. The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward
tongue shall be cut out.

31. Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves
to flee.

32. In those days the LORD began to cut Israel short: and Hazael
smote them in all the coasts of Israel;

32. Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.

32. Also we made ordinances for us, to charge ourselves yearly with
the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;

32. The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth
of the wicked speaketh frowardness.

32. As yet shall he remain at Nob that day: he shall shake his hand
against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.

33. From Jordan eastward,
all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the
Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead and
Bashan.

33. Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet,
Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.

33. For the shewbread, and for the continual meat offering, and for
the continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, for
the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to
make an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our
God.

33. Behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, shall lop the bough with
terror: and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and the
haughty shall be humbled.

34. Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all
his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?

34. Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel,

34. And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the
people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God,
after the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to
burn upon the altar of the LORD our God, as it is written in the law:

34. And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and
Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.

35. And Jehu slept with his fathers: and they
buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.

35. Benaiah,
Bedeiah, Chelluh,

35. And to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruits
of all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the house of the LORD:

36. And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty
and eight years.

36. Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,

36. Also the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, as it is
written in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks,
to bring to the house of our God, unto the priests that minister in
the house of our God:

37. Mattaniah,
Mattenai, and Jaasau,

37. And that we should bring the firstfruits
of our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees,
of wine and of oil, unto the priests, to the chambers of the house of
our God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the same
Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.

38. And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,

38. And the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, when
the Levites take tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of
the tithes unto the house of our God, to the chambers, into the
treasure house.

39. And
Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,

39. For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring
the offering of the corn, of the new wine, and the oil, unto the
chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests that
minister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will not forsake
the house of our God.

40. Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,

41. Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,

42. Shallum, Amariah, and
Joseph.

43. Of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau,
and Joel, Benaiah.

44. All these had taken strange wives: and some of them had wives by
whom they had children.




The Book of Nehemiah