1. Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against
Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a
covenant with us, and we will serve thee.

1. And it came to pass, after the year was expired, at the time when
kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab, and his servants with
him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and
besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.

1. But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the
daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites,
Zidonians, and Hittites:

1. And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.

1. Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,
Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

1. And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house
of Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,
which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring the
kingdom again to Rehoboam.

1. And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: the rest of the
people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the
holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities.

1. Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,

1. In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird
to your mountain?

1. A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is
his delight.

1. Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many
days.

1. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a
Branch shall grow out of his roots:

1. The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD saying,

1. Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east
gate of the LORD’s house, which looketh eastward: and behold at the
door of the gate five and twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the
son of Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.

1. Also I in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood to
confirm and to strengthen him.

1. When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out
of Egypt.

2. And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I
make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes,
and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.

2. And it came to pass in an eveningtide, that David arose from off
his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king’s house: and from the
roof he saw a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful
to look upon.

2. Of the nations concerning which the LORD
said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither
shall they come in unto you: for surely they will turn away your heart
after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love.

2. But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah,
took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s
sons which were slain; and they hid him, even him and his nurse, in
the bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.

2. And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, thou wast he
that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God said
unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be ruler
over my people Israel.

2. But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

2. And the people blessed all the men, that willingly offered
themselves to dwell at Jerusalem.

2. Should not
the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be
justified?

2. For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow
upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.

2. When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is
wisdom.

2. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not
what evil shall be upon the earth.

2. And the spirit of the LORD
shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the
spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear
of the LORD;

2. Hear ye
the words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and to
the inhabitants of Jerusalem;

2. Then said he unto me, Son of man, these are the men that devise
mischief, and give wicked counsel in this city:

2. And now will I shew thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand up
yet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than
they all: and by his strength through his riches he shall stir up all
against the realm of Grecia.

2. As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto
Baalim, and burned incense to graven images.

3. And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days’
respite, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel:
and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.

3. And David sent and enquired after the woman. And one said, Is not
this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?

3. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred
concubines: and his wives turned away his heart.

3. And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. And
Athaliah did reign over the land.

3. Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron;
and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and
they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the
LORD by Samuel.

3. Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all
Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying,

3. Now these are the chief of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem:
but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their
cities, to wit, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the
Nethinims, and the children of Solomon’s servants.

3. Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when
thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?

3. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?

3. The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the
perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.

3. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the
earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in
the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.

3. And shall make him of quick understanding in the
fear of the LORD: and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes,
neither reprove after the hearing of his ears:

3. And say thou unto them, Thus saith
the LORD God of Israel; Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the words
of this covenant,

3. Which say, It is
not near; let us build houses: this city is the caldron, and we be the
flesh.

3. And a mighty king shall stand up, that shall rule with great
dominion, and do according to his will.

3. I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they
knew not that I healed them.

4. Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings
in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices,
and wept.

4. And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto
him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from her uncleanness:
and she returned unto her house.

4. For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned
away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with
the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.

4. And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over
hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to him
into the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and took an
oath of them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king’s son.

4. And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; where
the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land.

4. Thus saith the LORD, Ye
shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to
his house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words of
the LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.

4. And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and of
the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son of
Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of
Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the children of Perez;

4. For thou hast
said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes.

4. The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD’s throne is in heaven:
his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.

4. Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth
the clouds shall not reap.

4. But with
righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the
meek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth: with the rod of his
mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.

4. Which I commanded your fathers in the day that
I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace,
saying, Obey my voice, and do them, according to all which I command
you: so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God:

4. Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.

4. And when he shall stand up, his kingdom shall be broken, and
shall be divided toward the four winds of heaven; and not to his
posterity, nor according to his dominion which he ruled: for his
kingdom shall be plucked up, even for others beside those.

4. I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to
them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat
unto them.

5. And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul
said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the
tidings of the men of Jabesh.

5. And the woman conceived, and sent and told David, and said, I am
with child.

5. For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians,
and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.

5. And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall
do; A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even be
keepers of the watch of the king’s house;

5. And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come
hither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city
of David.

5. And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in
Judah.

5. And
Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah,
the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son
of Shiloni.

5. But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee;

5. The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth
violence his soul hateth.

5. The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the
wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.

5. As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the
bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so thou
knowest not the works of God who maketh all.

5. And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

5. That I may
perform the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, to give them a
land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. Then answered I,
and said, So be it, O LORD.

5. And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said unto me, Speak;
Thus saith the LORD; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I know
the things that come into your mind, every one of them.

5. And the king of the south shall be strong, and one of his
princes; and he shall be strong above him, and have dominion; his
dominion shall be a great dominion.

5. He shall not return into the land of Egypt, and the Assyrian
shall be his king, because they refused to return.

6. And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings,
and his anger was kindled greatly.

6. And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And
Joab sent Uriah to David.

6. And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and went not fully
after the LORD, as did David his father.

6. And a third part shall
be at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard:
so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down.

6. And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be
chief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and was
chief.

6. He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,

6. All the sons of Perez that dwelt at Jerusalem were four hundred
threescore and eight valiant men.

6. And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are
double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less
than thine iniquity deserveth.

6. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an
horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.

6. The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but
transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.

6. In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not
thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or
that, or whether they both shall be alike good.

6. The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall
lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling
together; and a little child shall lead them.

6. Then the LORD said unto me, Proclaim all these words in the
cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye the
words of this covenant, and do them.

6. Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled
the streets thereof with the slain.

6. And in the end of years they shall join themselves together; for
the king’s daughter of the south shall come to the king of the north
to make an agreement: but she shall not retain the power of the arm;
neither shall he stand, nor his arm: but she shall be given up, and
they that brought her, and he that begat her, and he that strengthened
her in these times.

6. And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his
branches, and devour them, because of their own counsels.

7. And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent
them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hands of messengers,
saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so
shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of the LORD fell on the
people, and they came out with one consent.

7. And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab
did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered.

7. Then did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination
of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the
abomination of the children of Ammon.

7. And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even they
shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

7. And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the city
of David.

7. And Bethzur,
and Shoco, and Adullam,

7. And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam,
the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of
Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah.

7. Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the
Almighty unto perfection?

7. For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth
behold the upright.

7. When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the
hope of unjust men perisheth.

7. Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes
to behold the sun:

7. And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie
down together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

7. For I earnestly protested unto your fathers in the day that I
brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even unto this day, rising
early and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.

7. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laid
in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron:
but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it.

7. But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his
estate, which shall come with an army, and shall enter into the
fortress of the king of the north, and shall deal against them, and
shall prevail:

7. And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called
them to the most High, none at all would exalt him.

8. And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were
three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.

8. And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet.
And Uriah departed out of the king’s house, and there followed him a
mess of meat from the king.

8. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt
incense and sacrificed unto their gods.

8. And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his
weapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let him be
slain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he cometh in.

8. And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about:
and Joab repaired the rest of the city.

8. And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,

8. And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.

8. It is as high as heaven; what canst
thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?

8. The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh
in his stead.

8. But if a man live many years, and rejoice in
them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be
many. All that cometh is vanity.

8. And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the
weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’ den.

8. Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every one
in the imagination of their evil heart: therefore I will bring upon
them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do: but
they did them not.

8. Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you,
saith the Lord GOD.

8. And shall also carry captives into Egypt their
gods, with their princes, and with their precious vessels of silver
and of gold; and he shall continue more years than the king of the
north.

8. How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee,
Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as
Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled
together.

9. And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say
unto the men of Jabeshgilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot,
ye shall have help. And the messengers came and shewed it to the men
of Jabesh; and they were glad.

9. But Uriah slept at the door of the king’s house with all the
servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.

9. And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned
from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice,

9. And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things
that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men
that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out on
the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.

9. So David waxed greater and greater: for the LORD of hosts was
with him.

9. And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,

9. And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the son
of Senuah was second over the city.

9. The measure
thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.

9. An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through
knowledge shall the just be delivered.

9. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee
in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in
the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God
will bring thee into judgment.

9. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD, as the waters cover
the sea.

9. And the LORD said unto me, A conspiracy is found among the men of
Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

9. And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver you
into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.

9. So the king of the south shall come into his kingdom, and shall
return into his own land.

9. I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not
return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in
the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.

10. Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out
unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.

10. And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto
his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey?
why then didst thou not go down unto thine house?

10. And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go
after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded.

10. And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give king
David’s spears and shields, that were in the temple of the LORD.

10. These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who
strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and with all Israel,
to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.

10. And Zorah, and Aijalon,
and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.

10. Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin.

10. If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can
hinder him?

10. When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and
when the wicked perish, there is shouting.

10. Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from
thy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity.

10. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall
stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek: and
his rest shall be glorious.

10. They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers,
which refused to hear my words; and they went after other gods to
serve them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my
covenant which I made with their fathers.

10. Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of
Israel; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

10. But his sons shall be stirred up, and shall assemble a multitude
of great forces: and one shall certainly come, and overflow, and pass
through: then shall he return, and be stirred up, even to his
fortress.

10. They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when
he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west.

11. And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three
companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning
watch, and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it came
to pass, that they which remained were scattered, so that two of them
were not left together.

11. And Uriah
said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in tents; and
my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open
fields; shall I then go into mine house, to eat and to drink, and to
lie with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not
do this thing.

11. Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done
of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I
have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and
will give it to thy servant.

11. And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand,
round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left
corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple.

11. And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had;
Jashobeam, an Hachmonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up his
spear against three hundred slain by him at one time.

11. And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, and
store of victual, and of oil and wine.

11. Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of
Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of the
house of God.

11. For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also;
will he not then consider it?

11. By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is
overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.

11. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set
his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people,
which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros,
and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and
from the islands of the sea.

11. Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil upon
them, which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shall
cry unto me, I will not hearken unto them.

11. This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the
flesh in the midst thereof; but I will judge you in the border of
Israel:

11. And the king of the south shall be moved with choler, and shall
come forth and fight with him, even with the king of the north: and he
shall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shall be given
into his hand.

11. They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of
the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the
LORD.

12. And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul
reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.

12. And David said to Uriah, Tarry here to day also, and to morrow I
will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the
morrow.

12. Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy
father’s sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son.

12. And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown upon him,
and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him;
and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king.

12. And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was
one of the three mighties.

12. And in every several city he put shields and spears, and made
them exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

12. And their brethren that did the work of the house were eight
hundred twenty and two: and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of
Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur,
the son of Malchiah.

12. For vain men would be wise,
though man be born like a wild ass’s colt.

12. He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of
understanding holdeth his peace.

12. And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall
assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of
Judah from the four corners of the earth.

12. Then shall the cities of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem go,
and cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense: but they shall not
save them at all in the time of their trouble.

12. And ye shall know that I am the LORD: for ye have not
walked in my statutes, neither executed my judgments, but have done
after the manners of the heathen that are round about you.

12. And when he hath taken away the multitude, his heart shall be
lifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shall not
be strengthened by it.

12. Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel
with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the
saints.

13. And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day:
for to day the LORD hath wrought salvation in Israel.

13. And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him;
and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with
the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house.

13. Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one
tribe to thy son for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake
which I have chosen.

13. And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the
people, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.

13. He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were
gathered together to battle, where was a parcel of ground full of
barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.

13. And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted
to him out of all their coasts.

13. And his brethren, chief of the fathers, two hundred forty and
two: and Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of
Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,

13. If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward
him;

13. A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful
spirit concealeth the matter.

13. The envy also of Ephraim shall depart, and the adversaries of
Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall
not vex Ephraim.

13. For according to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O
Judah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have ye
set up altars to that shameful thing, even altars to burn incense unto
Baal.

13. And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of
Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud
voice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant
of Israel?

13. For the king of the north shall return, and shall set forth a
multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come after
certain years with a great army and with much riches.

14. Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal,
and renew the kingdom there.

14. And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to
Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.

14. And the LORD stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the
Edomite: he was of the king’s seed in Edom.

14. And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the
manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and all
the people of the land rejoiced, and blew with trumpets: and Athaliah
rent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.

14. And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, and
delivered it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a
great deliverance.

14. For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them
off from executing the priest’s office unto the LORD:

14. And their brethren, mighty men
of valour, an hundred twenty and eight: and their overseer was
Zabdiel, the son of one of the great men.

14. If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not
wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles.

14. Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of
counsellors there is safety.

14. But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward
the west; they shall spoil them of the east together: they shall lay
their hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obey
them.

14. Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up a cry
or prayer for them: for I will not hear them in the time that they cry
unto me for their trouble.

14. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

14. And in those times there shall many stand up against the king of
the south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves to
establish the vision; but they shall fall.

15. And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king
before the LORD in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of
peace offerings before the LORD; and there Saul and all the men of
Israel rejoiced greatly.

15. And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the
forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may
be smitten, and die.

15. For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the
captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain, after he had
smitten every male in Edom;

15. But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds,
the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth without
the ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For the
priest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the LORD.

15. Now three of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David,
into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines encamped in
the valley of Rephaim.

15. And he
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for
the calves which he had made.

15. Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of
Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;

15. For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou
shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear:

15. He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that
hateth suretiship is sure.

15. And the LORD shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian
sea; and with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river,
and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over dryshod.

15. What hath my beloved to do in mine house, seeing she hath
wrought lewdness with many, and the holy flesh is passed from thee?
when thou doest evil, then thou rejoicest.

15. Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy
kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly, are they unto whom the
inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from the LORD: unto us
is this land given in possession.

15. So the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, and
take the most fenced cities: and the arms of the south shall not
withstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any
strength to withstand.

16. And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he
assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were.

16. (For six months did Joab remain
there with all Israel, until he had cut off every male in Edom:)

16. And they laid hands on her; and she went by the way by the which
the horses came into the king’s house: and there was she slain.

16. And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines’ garrison
was then at Bethlehem.

16. And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set their
hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrifice
unto the LORD God of their fathers.

16. And Shabbethai
and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the oversight of the
outward business of the house of God.

16. Because thou shalt forget
thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away:

16. A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.

16. And there shall be an highway for the remnant of his people,
which shall be left, from Assyria; like as it was to Israel in the day
that he came up out of the land of Egypt.

16. The LORD called thy name, A green olive tree, fair, and of
goodly fruit: with the noise of a great tumult he hath kindled fire
upon it, and the branches of it are broken.

16. Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have cast
them far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them
among the countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in
the countries where they shall come.

16. But he that cometh against him shall do according to his own
will, and none shall stand before him: and he shall stand in the
glorious land, which by his hand shall be consumed.

17. And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and
there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and Uriah the
Hittite died also.

17. That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with
him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child.

17. And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and
the people, that they should be the LORD’s people; between the king
also and the people.

17. And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!

17. So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the
son of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in the
way of David and Solomon.

17. And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of
Asaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer: and
Bakbukiah the second among his brethren, and Abda the son of Shammua,
the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.

17. And thine
age shall be clearer than the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou
shalt be as the morning.

17. The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is
cruel troubleth his own flesh.

17. For the LORD of hosts, that planted thee, hath pronounced evil
against thee, for the evil of the house of Israel and of the house of
Judah, which they have done against themselves to provoke me to anger
in offering incense unto Baal.

17. Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather you
from the people, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have
been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.

17. He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his
whole kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and he
shall give him the daughter of women, corrupting her: but she shall
not stand on his side, neither be for him.

18. Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;

18. And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took
men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king
of Egypt; which gave him an house, and appointed him victuals, and
gave him land.

18. And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and
brake it down; his altars and his images brake they in pieces
thoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And
the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD.

18. And
the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water
out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and
brought it to David: but David would not drink of it, but poured it
out to the LORD.

18. And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son
of David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;

18. All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred fourscore and
four.

18. And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt
dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.

18. The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth
righteousness shall be a sure reward.

18. And the LORD hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it: then
thou shewedst me their doings.

18. And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the
detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from
thence.

18. After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shall take
many: but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offered
by him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn
upon him.

19. And charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of
telling the matters of the war unto the king,

19. And Hadad found great favour in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he
gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes
the queen.

19. And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captains, and the
guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king
from the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the
guard to the king’s house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.

19. And said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this thing:
shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in
jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it.
Therefore he would not drink it.

These things did these three mightiest.

19. Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.

19. Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren that
kept the gates, were an hundred seventy and two.

19. Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea,
many shall make suit unto thee.

19. As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil
pursueth it to his own death.

19. But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter;
and I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let
us destroy the tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off
from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered.

19. And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit
within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and
will give them an heart of flesh:

19. Then he shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: but
he shall stumble and fall, and not be found.

20. And if so be that
the king’s wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore approached ye
so nigh unto the city when ye did fight? knew ye not that they would
shoot from the wall?

20. And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom
Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house: and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s
household among the sons of Pharaoh.

20. And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was in
quiet: and they slew Athaliah with the sword beside the king’s house.

20. And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: for
lifting up his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had a
name among the three.

20. And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; which
bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

20. And the residue of Israel, of the priests, and the Levites, were
in all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.

20. But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not
escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.

20. They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD:
but such as are upright in their way are his delight.

20. But, O LORD of hosts, that judgest righteously, that triest the
reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee
have I revealed my cause.

20. That they may walk in my
statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my
people, and I will be their God.

20. Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the glory
of the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyed, neither in
anger, nor in battle.

21. Who smote Abimelech the son of
Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him
from the wall, that he died in Thebez? why went ye nigh the wall? then
say thou, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.

21. And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers,
and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh,
Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.

21. Seven years old was Jehoash when he began to reign.

21. Of the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he was
their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.

21. And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his
wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore
concubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescore
daughters.)

21. But the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa were over
the Nethinims.

21. Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished:
but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.

21. Therefore thus saith the LORD of the men of Anathoth, that seek
thy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the LORD, that thou die
not by our hand:

21. But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their
detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way
upon their own heads, saith the Lord GOD.

21. And in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they
shall not give the honour of the kingdom: but he shall come in
peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.

22. So the messenger went, and came and shewed David all that Joab
had sent him for.

22. Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me,
that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he
answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go in any wise.

22. Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionlike men of Moab:
also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.

22. And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the
chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him
king.

22. The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son
of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha.
Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the house
of God.

22. As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman which
is without discretion.

22. Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold,
I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons
and their daughters shall die by famine:

22. Then did the cherubims lift up their wings, and the wheels
beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

22. And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from before
him, and shall be broken; yea, also the prince of the covenant.

23. And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed
against us, and came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them
even unto the entering of the gate.

23. And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of
Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah:

23. And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits
high; and in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and
he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the
Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear.

23. And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children
throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced
city: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired many
wives.

23. For it was the king’s commandment concerning them, that a
certain portion should be for the singers, due for every day.

23. The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of
the wicked is wrath.

23. And there shall be no
remnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even
the year of their visitation.

23. And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city,
and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city.

23. And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully:
for he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small people.

24. And the shooters shot from off the wall upon thy servants; and
some of the king’s servants be dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite
is dead also.

24. And
he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a band, when David
slew them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and
reigned in Damascus.

24. These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name
among the three mighties.

24. And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zerah
the son of Judah, was at the king’s hand in all matters concerning the
people.

24. There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that
withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.

24. Afterwards the spirit took me up, and brought me in a vision by
the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the
vision that I had seen went up from me.

24. He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the
province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor
his fathers’ fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey, and spoil,
and riches: yea, and he shall forecast his devices against the strong
holds, even for a time.

25. Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto
Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one
as well as another: make thy battle more strong against the city, and
overthrow it: and encourage thou him.

25. And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon,
beside the mischief that Hadad did: and he abhorred Israel, and
reigned over Syria.

25. Behold, he was honourable among the thirty, but attained not to
the first three: and David set him over his guard.

25. And for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of
Judah dwelt at Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon,
and in the villages thereof, and at Jekabzeel, and in the villages
thereof,

25. The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall
be watered also himself.

25. Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that the
LORD had shewed me.

25. And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king
of the south with a great army; and the king of the south shall be
stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shall
not stand: for they shall forecast devices against him.

26. And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was
dead, she mourned for her husband.

26. And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda,
Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow woman, even
he lifted up his hand against the king.

26. Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of
Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

26. And at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethphelet,

26. He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but
blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.

26. Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroy
him, and his army shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain.

27. And when the mourning was past, David sent and fetched her to
his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing
that David had done displeased the LORD.

27. And this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the
king: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breaches of the city of
David his father.

27. Shammoth the
Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,

27. And at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba, and in the villages thereof,

27. He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that
seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.

27. And both of these kings’ hearts shall be to do mischief, and
they shall speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: for yet
the end shall be at the time appointed.

28. And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valour: and Solomon
seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over
all the charge of the house of Joseph.

28. Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Abiezer the Antothite,

28. And at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in the villages thereof,

28. He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous
shall flourish as a branch.

28. Then shall he return into his land with great riches; and his
heart shall be against the holy covenant; and he shall do exploits,
and return to his own land.

29. And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of
Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way;
and he had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in
the field:

29. Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the
Ahohite,

29. And at Enrimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth,

29. He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the
fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.

29. At the time appointed he shall return, and come toward the
south; but it shall not be as the former, or as the latter.

30. And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him,
and rent it in twelve pieces:

30. Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the
Netophathite,

30. Zanoah,
Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish, and the fields thereof, at
Azekah, and in the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Beersheba
unto the valley of Hinnom.

30. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that
winneth souls is wise.

30. For the ships of Chittim shall come against him: therefore he
shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy
covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence
with them that forsake the holy covenant.

31. And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee
ten pieces: for thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, Behold, I will
rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes
to thee:

31. Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertained
to the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

31. The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelt at Michmash, and
Aija, and Bethel, and in their villages.

31. Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much
more the wicked and the sinner.

31. And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the
sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and
they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate.

32. (But he shall have one tribe for my servant David’s
sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake, the city which I have chosen out of
all the tribes of Israel:)

32. Hurai of
the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

32. And at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,

32. And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by
flatteries: but the people that do know their God shall be strong, and
do exploits.

33. Because that they have forsaken me,
and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh
the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon,
and have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in mine
eyes, and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as did David his
father.

33. Azmaveth the
Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,

33. Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,

33. And they that understand among the people shall instruct many:
yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and by
spoil, many days.

34. Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand: but I
will make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant’s
sake, whom I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes:

34. The sons of Hashem the
Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite,

34. Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,

34. Now when they shall fall, they shall be holpen with a little
help: but many shall cleave to them with flatteries.

35. But I will take the kingdom out of his son’s hand, and will give
it unto thee, even ten tribes.

35. Ahiam the son
of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,

35. Lod, and Ono, the valley of
craftsmen.

35. And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and
to purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: because
it is yet for a time appointed.

36. And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my servant
may have a light alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have
chosen me to put my name there.

36. Hepher the
Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,

36. And of the Levites were divisions in Judah, and in Benjamin.

36. And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt
himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak
marvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the
indignation be accomplished: for that that is determined shall be
done.

37. And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that
thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.

37. Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai
the son of Ezbai,

37. Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire
of women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all.

38. And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command
thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that is right in my sight, to
keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did; that I
will be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built for David,
and will give Israel unto thee.

38. Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of
Haggeri,

38. But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces: and a god
whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold, and silver, and
with precious stones, and pleasant things.

39. And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not for ever.

39. Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the
armourbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

39. Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god,
whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall cause
them to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain.

40. Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose,
and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt
until the death of Solomon.

40. Ira the Ithrite, Gareb
the Ithrite,

40. And at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at
him: and the king of the north shall come against him like a
whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; and
he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over.

41. And the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and
his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?

41. Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

41. He shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countries
shall be overthrown: but these shall escape out of his hand, even
Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.

42. And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel
was forty years.

42. Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, and
thirty with him,

42. He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and the
land of Egypt shall not escape.

43. And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

43. Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the
Mithnite,

43. But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of
silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans and
the Ethiopians shall be at his steps.

44. Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of
Hothan the Aroerite,

44. But tidings out of the east and out of the north shall trouble
him: therefore he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, and
utterly to make away many.

45. Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his
brother, the Tizite,

45. And he shall plant the tabernacles of his palace between the
seas in the glorious holy mountain; yet he shall come to his end, and
none shall help him.

46. Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and
Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,

47. Eliel,
and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.