1. Saul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over
Israel,

1. And it came to pass after this, that Absalom the son of David had
a fair sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved
her.

1. And, behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of
the LORD unto Bethel: and Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense.

1. In the three and twentieth year of Joash the son of Ahaziah king
of Judah Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in
Samaria, and reigned seventeen years.

1. And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds,
and with every leader.

1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign
over Judah.

1. On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the
people; and therein was found written, that the Ammonite and the
Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever;

1. Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and
understood it.

1. How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt
thou hide thy face from me?

1. A wise son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner
heareth not rebuke.

1. The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

1. Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, and
put it upon thy loins, and put it not in water.

1. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

1. When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but
when he offended in Baal, he died.

2. Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two
thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Bethel, and a
thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the
people he sent every man to his tent.

2. And Amnon was so vexed, that he fell sick for his sister Tamar;
for she was a virgin; and Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything
to her.

2. And he cried against the altar in the word of the LORD, and said,
O altar, altar, thus saith the LORD; Behold, a child shall be born
unto the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon thee shall he offer
the priests of the high places that burn incense upon thee, and men’s
bones shall be burnt upon thee.

2. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, and
followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which made Israel to
sin; he departed not therefrom.

2. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem
good unto you, and that it be of the LORD our God, let us send abroad
unto our brethren every where, that are left in all the land of
Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in
their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:

2. He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between
Abijah and Jeroboam.

2. Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water,
but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: howbeit our
God turned the curse into a blessing.

2. What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto
you.

2. How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my
heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?

2. A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of
the transgressors shall eat violence.

2. Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto
them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.

2. So I got a girdle according to the word of the LORD, and put it
on my loins.

2. Son of man,
prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say thou
unto them that prophesy out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of
the LORD;

2. And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images
of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all
of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that
sacrifice kiss the calves.

3. And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in
Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet
throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.

3. But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of
Shimeah David’s brother: and Jonadab was a very subtil man.

3. And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which
the LORD hath spoken; Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes
that are upon it shall be poured out.

3. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he
delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the
hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, all their days.

3. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we enquired
not at it in the days of Saul.

3. And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of
war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set the
battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men,
being mighty men of valour.

3. Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they
separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.

3. Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with
God.

3. Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I
sleep the sleep of death;

3. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth
wide his lips shall have destruction.

3. I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty
ones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.

3. And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying,

3. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe unto the foolish prophets,
that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!

3. Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud and as the early dew
that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out
of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.

4. And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the
Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the
Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.

4. And he said unto him, Why art thou, being the king’s son, lean
from day to day? wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said unto him, I
love Tamar, my brother Absalom’s sister.

4. And it came to pass, when king Jeroboam heard the saying of the
man of God, which had cried against the altar in Bethel, that he put
forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And his hand,
which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it
in again to him.

4. And Jehoahaz besought the LORD, and the LORD hearkened unto him:
for he saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syria
oppressed them.

4. And all the congregation said that they would do so: for the
thing was right in the eyes of all the people.

4. And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel;

4. And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of the
chamber of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah:

4. But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value.

4. Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that
trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

4. The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul
of the diligent shall be made fat.

4. The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great
people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered
together: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.

4. Take the girdle that thou hast got, which is upon thy loins, and
arise, go to Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of the rock.

4. O Israel,
thy prophets are like the foxes in the deserts.

4. Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt
know no god but me: for there is no saviour beside me.

5. And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with
Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and
people as the sand which is on the sea shore in multitude: and they
came up, and pitched in Michmash, eastward from Bethaven.

5. And Jonadab said unto him, Lay thee down on thy bed, and make
thyself sick: and when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto him, I
pray thee, let my sister Tamar come, and give me meat, and dress the
meat in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it at her hand.

5. The altar also was rent, and the ashes poured out from the altar,
according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of
the LORD.

5. (And the LORD gave Israel a saviour, so that they went out from
under the hand of the Syrians: and the children of Israel dwelt in
their tents, as beforetime.

5. So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor of Egypt even
unto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God from
Kirjathjearim.

5. Ought
ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over
Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of
salt?

5. And he
had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the
meat offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of
the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given
to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the offerings of
the priests.

5. O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your
wisdom.

5. But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy
salvation.

5. A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and
cometh to shame.

5. They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even the
LORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.

5. So I went, and hid it by Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.

5. Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for
the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD.

5. I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.

6. When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the
people were distressed,) then the people did hide themselves in caves,
and in thickets, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.

6. So Amnon lay down, and made himself sick: and when the king was
come to see him, Amnon said unto the king, I pray thee, let Tamar my
sister come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat
at her hand.

6. And the king answered and said unto the man of God, Intreat now
the face of the LORD thy God, and pray for me, that my hand may be
restored me again. And the man of God besought the LORD, and the
king’s hand was restored him again, and became as it was before.

6. Nevertheless they departed not from the sins of the house of
Jeroboam, who made Israel sin, but walked therein: and there remained
the grove also in Samaria.)

6. And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, to
Kirjathjearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of
God the LORD, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is
called on it.

6. Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the
son of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.

6. But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem: for in the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, and
after certain days obtained I leave of the king:

6. Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.

6. I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with
me.

6. Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but
wickedness overthroweth the sinner.

6. Howl ye; for the day of the LORD is at hand; it shall come as a
destruction from the Almighty.

6. And it came to pass after many days, that the LORD said unto me,
Arise, go to Euphrates, and take the girdle from thence, which I
commanded thee to hide there.

6. They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, The LORD
saith: and the LORD hath not sent them: and they have made others to
hope that they would confirm the word.

6. According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were
filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me.

7. And some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and
Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed
him trembling.

7. Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to thy brother
Amnon’s house, and dress him meat.

7. And the king said unto the man of God, Come home with me, and
refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward.

7. Neither did he leave of the people
to Jehoahaz but fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand
footmen; for the king of Syria had destroyed them, and had made them
like the dust by threshing.

7. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of
Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drave the cart.

7. And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial,
and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstand
them.

7. And I came to
Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah, in
preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.

7. Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?

7. There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is
that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.

7. Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man’s heart shall
melt:

7. Then I went to Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle from
the place where I had hid it: and, behold, the girdle was marred, it
was profitable for nothing.

7. Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a lying
divination, whereas ye say, The LORD saith it; albeit I have not
spoken?

7. Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way
will I observe them:

8. And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel
had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were
scattered from him.

8. So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house; and he was laid down.
And she took flour, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and
did bake the cakes.

8. And the man of God said unto the king, If thou wilt give me half
thine house, I will not go in with thee, neither will I eat bread nor
drink water in this place:

8. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and
his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?

8. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might,
and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with
timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.

8. And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand
of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are with
you golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

8. And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household
stuff to Tobiah out of the chamber.

8. Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God?

8. The ransom of a man’s life are his riches: but the poor heareth
not rebuke.

8. And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold
of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall
be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.

8. Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

8. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have
spoken vanity, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you,
saith the Lord GOD.

8. I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved
of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I
devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them.

9. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me, and peace
offerings. And he offered the burnt offering.

9. And she took a pan, and poured them out before him; but he
refused to eat. And Amnon said, Have out all men from me. And they
went out every man from him.

9. For so was it charged me by the word
of the LORD, saying, Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn again by
the same way that thou camest.

9. And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and they
buried him in Samaria: and Joash his son reigned in his stead.

9. And when they came unto the threshingfloor of Chidon, Uzza put
forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.

9. Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,
and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the
nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself
with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them
that are no gods.

9. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thither
brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat
offering and the frankincense.

9. Is it
good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do
ye so mock him?

9. The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked
shall be put out.

9. Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and
fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the
sinners thereof out of it.

9. Thus saith
the LORD, After this manner will I mar the pride of Judah, and the
great pride of Jerusalem.

9. And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that see vanity, and
that divine lies: they shall not be in the assembly of my people,
neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel,
neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall know
that I am the Lord GOD.

9. O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine help.

10. And it came to pass, that as soon as he had made an end of
offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to
meet him, that he might salute him.

10. And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, that
I may eat of thine hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she had made,
and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.

10. So he went another way, and returned not by the way that he came
to Bethel.

10. In the thirty and seventh year of Joash king of Judah began
Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz to reign over Israel in Samaria, and
reigned sixteen years.

10. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote
him, because he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.

10. But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken
him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons of
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business:

10. And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been
given them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, were
fled every one to his field.

10. He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly
accept persons.

10. Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is
wisdom.

10. For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not
give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and
the moon shall not cause her light to shine.

10. This evil people, which refuse to hear my words, which walk in
the imagination of their heart, and walk after other gods, to serve
them, and to worship them, shall even be as this girdle, which is good
for nothing.

10. Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying,
Peace; and there was no peace; and one built up a wall, and, lo,
others daubed it with untempered morter:

10. I will be thy king: where is any other that may save thee in all
thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and
princes?

11. And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I
saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not
within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered
themselves together at Michmash;

11. And when she had brought them unto him to eat, he took hold of
her, and said unto her, Come lie with me, my sister.

11. Now there dwelt an old prophet in Bethel; and his sons came and
told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in
Bethel: the words which he had spoken unto the king, them they told
also to their father.

11. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD; he
departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel sin: but he walked therein.

11. And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach
upon Uzza: wherefore that place is called Perezuzza to this day.

11. And they burn
unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and
sweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure
table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn
every evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye have
forsaken him.

11. Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of
God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in their
place.

11. Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall
upon you?

11. Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that
gathereth by labour shall increase.

11. And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for
their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease,
and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.

11. For as the girdle cleaveth to the loins of a man, so have I
caused to cleave unto me the whole house of Israel and the whole house
of Judah, saith the LORD; that they might be unto me for a people, and
for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not
hear.

11. Say unto them which
daub it with untempered morter, that it shall fall: there shall be an
overflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a
stormy wind shall rend it.

11. I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in
my wrath.

12. Therefore said I, The
Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made
supplication unto the LORD: I forced myself therefore, and offered a
burnt offering.

12. And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me; for no
such thing ought to be done in Israel: do not thou this folly.

12. And their father said unto them, What way went he? For his sons
had seen what way the man of God went, which came from Judah.

12. And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, and his
might wherewith he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not
written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

12. And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring
the ark of God home to me?

12. And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and his
priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of
Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for ye
shall not prosper.

12. Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine
and the oil unto the treasuries.

12. Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to
bodies of clay.

12. Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh,
it is a tree of life.

12. I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than
the golden wedge of Ophir.

12. Therefore thou shalt speak unto them this word; Thus saith the
LORD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they
shall say unto thee, Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall
be filled with wine?

12. Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you,
Where is the daubing wherewith ye have daubed it?

12. The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.

13. And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not
kept the commandment of the LORD thy God, which he commanded thee: for
now would the LORD have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.

13. And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go? and as for thee,
thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray
thee, speak unto the king; for he will not withhold me from thee.

13. And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass. So they saddled
him the ass: and he rode thereon,

13. And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne:
and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.

13. So David brought not the ark home to
himself to the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of
Obededom the Gittite.

13. But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so
they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.

13. And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest,
and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them
was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they were
counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their
brethren.

13. Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on
me what will.

13. Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth
the commandment shall be rewarded.

13. Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove
out of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of
his fierce anger.

13. Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith
the LORD, Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even
the kings that sit upon David’s throne, and the priests, and the
prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.

13. Therefore
thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my
fury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in mine anger, and
great hailstones in my fury to consume it.

13. The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an
unwise son; for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking
forth of children.

14. But now thy kingdom shall not continue: the LORD hath sought him
a man after his own heart, and the LORD hath commanded him to be
captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the
LORD commanded thee.

14. Howbeit he would not hearken unto her voice: but, being stronger
than she, forced her, and lay with her.

14. And went after the man of God,
and found him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the
man of God that camest from Judah? And he said, I am.

14. Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died. And
Joash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face,
and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the
horsemen thereof.

14. And the ark of God remained with the family of Obededom in his
house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obededom, and
all that he had.

14. And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and
behind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the
trumpets.

14. Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good
deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the offices
thereof.

14. Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in
mine hand?

14. The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

14. And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man
taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every
one into his own land.

14. And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and
the sons together, saith the LORD: I will not pity, nor spare, nor
have mercy, but destroy them.

14. So will I break down the wall that ye have daubed with
untempered morter, and bring it down to the ground, so that the
foundation thereof shall be discovered, and it shall fall, and ye
shall be consumed in the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I am
the LORD.

14. I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem
them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be
thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.

15. And Samuel arose, and gat him up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of
Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him,
about six hundred men.

15. Then Amnon hated her exceedingly; so that the hatred wherewith
he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. And
Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone.

15. Then he said unto him, Come home with me, and eat bread.

15. And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows. And he took unto
him bow and arrows.

15. Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah.

15. In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the
sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses; as also wine,
grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into
Jerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day
wherein they sold victuals.

15. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I
will maintain mine own ways before him.

15. Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors
is hard.

15. Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one
that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.

15. Hear ye, and give ear; be not proud: for the LORD hath spoken.

15. Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon them
that have daubed it with untempered morter, and will say unto you, The
wall is no more, neither they that daubed it;

15. Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall
come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his
spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall
spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.

16. And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present
with them, abode in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped
in Michmash.

16. And she said unto him, There is no cause: this evil in sending
me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me. But he
would not hearken unto her.

16. And he said, I may not return with thee, nor go in with thee:
neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this place:

16. And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow.
And he put his hand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king’s
hands.

16. And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered
them into their hand.

16. There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, and
all manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children of
Judah, and in Jerusalem.

16. He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come
before him.

16. Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open
his folly.

16. Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes;
their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.

16. Give glory to the LORD your God, before he cause darkness, and
before your feet stumble upon the dark mountains, and, while ye look
for light, he turn it into the shadow of death, and make it gross
darkness.

16. To wit, the
prophets of Israel which prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and which see
visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the Lord GOD.

16. Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her
God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in
pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.

17. And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in
three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to
Ophrah, unto the land of Shual:

17. Then he called his servant that ministered unto him, and said,
Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her.

17. For it was said to me by the word of the LORD, Thou shalt eat no
bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to go by the way that thou
camest.

17. And he said, Open the window eastward. And he opened it. Then
Elisha said, Shoot. And he shot. And he said, The arrow of the LORD’s
deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shalt
smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them.

17. And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so
there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

17. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them,
What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day?

17. Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.

17. A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful
ambassador is health.

17. Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not
regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.

17. But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret places
for your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down with tears,
because the LORD’s flock is carried away captive.

17. Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters of
thy people, which prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy thou
against them,

18. And another company turned the
way to Bethhoron: and another company turned to the way of the border
that looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.

18. And she had a garment of divers colours upon her: for with such
robes were the king’s daughters that were virgins apparelled. Then his
servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her.

18. He said unto him, I am a prophet also as thou art; and an angel
spake unto me by the word of the LORD, saying, Bring him back with
thee into thine house, that he may eat bread and drink water. But he
lied unto him.

18. And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said unto
the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice, and
stayed.

18. Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and
the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD God
of their fathers.

18. Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this
evil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel
by profaning the sabbath.

18. Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be
justified.

18. Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but
he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.

18. Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they
shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not
spare children.

18. Say unto the king and to the queen, Humble yourselves, sit down:
for your principalities shall come down, even the crown of your glory.

18. And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the women
that sew pillows to all armholes, and make kerchiefs upon the head of
every stature to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and
will ye save the souls alive that come unto you?

19. Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel:
for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:

19. And Tamar put ashes on her head, and rent her garment of divers
colours that was on her, and laid her hand on her head, and went on
crying.

19. So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house, and
drank water.

19. And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldest
have smitten five or six times; then hadst thou smitten Syria till
thou hadst consumed it: whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice.

19. And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him,
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,
and Ephraim with the towns thereof.

19. And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to
be dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut,
and charged that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: and
some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be
brought in on the sabbath day.

19. Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue,
I shall give up the ghost.

19. The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is
abomination to fools to depart from evil.

19. And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’
excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.

19. The cities of the south shall be shut up, and none shall open
them: Judah shall be carried away captive all of it, it shall be
wholly carried away captive.

19. And will ye
pollute me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of
bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to save the souls
alive that should not live, by your lying to my people that hear your
lies?

20. But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, to sharpen
every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock.

20. And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother
been with thee? but hold now thy peace, my sister: he is thy brother;
regard not this thing. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother
Absalom’s house.

20. And it came to pass, as they sat at the table, that the word of
the LORD came unto the prophet that brought him back:

20. And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the
Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.

20. Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of
Abijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.

20. So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without
Jerusalem once or twice.

20. Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from
thee.

20. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of
fools shall be destroyed.

20. It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from
generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;
neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.

20. Lift up your eyes, and behold them that come from the north:
where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?

20. Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against
your pillows, wherewith ye there hunt the souls to make them fly, and
I will tear them from your arms, and will let the souls go, even the
souls that ye hunt to make them fly.

21. Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and
for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.

21. But when king David heard of all these things, he was very
wroth.

21. And he
cried unto the man of God that came from Judah, saying, Thus saith the
LORD, Forasmuch as thou hast disobeyed the mouth of the LORD, and hast
not kept the commandment which the LORD thy God commanded thee,

21. And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold,
they spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of
Elisha: and when the man was let down, and touched the bones of
Elisha, he revived, and stood up on his feet.

21. But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begat
twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

21. Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge ye
about the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that
time forth came they no more on the sabbath.

21. Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me
afraid.

21. Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be
repayed.

21. But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses
shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and
satyrs shall dance there.

21. What wilt thou say when he shall punish thee? for thou hast taught
them to be captains, and as chief over thee: shall not sorrows take
thee, as a woman in travail?

21. Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of
your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ye
shall know that I am the LORD.

22. So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither
sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with
Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there
found.

22. And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon neither good nor bad:
for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.

22. But camest back, and hast eaten bread and drunk water in the place, of
the which the Lord did say to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no water;
thy carcase shall not come unto the sepulchre of thy fathers.

22. But Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of
Jehoahaz.

22. And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his
sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.

22. And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves,
and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath
day.

Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to
the greatness of thy mercy.

22. Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer
thou me.

22. A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children:
and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.

22. And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate
houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to
come, and her days shall not be prolonged.

22. And if thou say in thine heart,
Wherefore come these things upon me? For the greatness of thine
iniquity are thy skirts discovered, and thy heels made bare.

22. Because with lies ye have made the heart of the righteous sad,
whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked,
that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life:

23. And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of
Michmash.

23. And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had
sheepshearers in Baalhazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom
invited all the king’s sons.

23. And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread, and after he had
drunk, that he saddled for him the ass, to wit, for the prophet whom
he had brought back.

23. And the LORD was gracious unto them, and had compassion on them,
and had respect unto them, because of his covenant with Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them
from his presence as yet.

23. In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod,
of Ammon, and of Moab:

23. How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my
transgression and my sin.

23. Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is
destroyed for want of judgment.

23. Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do evil.

23. Therefore ye shall see no more vanity, nor divine divinations:
for I will deliver my people out of your hand: and ye shall know that
I am the LORD.

24. And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold now, thy servant
hath sheepshearers; let the king, I beseech thee, and his servants go
with thy servant.

24. And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and slew him:
and his carcase was cast in the way, and the ass stood by it, the lion
also stood by the carcase.

24. So Hazael king of Syria died; and Benhadad his son reigned in
his stead.

24. And their children spake half in the
speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews’ language, but
according to the language of each people.

24. Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?

24. He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him
chasteneth him betimes.

24. Therefore will I scatter them as the stubble that passeth away
by the wind of the wilderness.

25. And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all now
go, lest we be chargeable unto thee. And he pressed him: howbeit he
would not go, but blessed him.

25. And, behold, men passed by, and saw the carcase cast in the way,
and the lion standing by the carcase: and they came and told it in the
city where the old prophet dwelt.

25. And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the hand of
Benhadad the son of Hazael the cities, which he had taken out of the
hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times did Joash beat him,
and recovered the cities of Israel.

25. And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of
them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying,
Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their
daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.

25. Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue
the dry stubble?

25. The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the
belly of the wicked shall want.

25. This is thy lot, the portion of thy measures from me, saith the
LORD; because thou hast forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.

26. Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go
with us. And the king said unto him, Why should he go with thee?

26. And when the prophet that brought him back from the way heard
thereof, he said, It is the man of God, who was disobedient unto the
word of the LORD: therefore the LORD hath delivered him unto the lion,
which hath torn him, and slain him, according to the word of the LORD,
which he spake unto him.

26. Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among
many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God,
and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did
outlandish women cause to sin.

26. For thou writest bitter things against me, and
makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.

26. Therefore will I discover thy skirts upon thy face, that thy
shame may appear.

27. But Absalom pressed him, that he let Amnon and all the king’s
sons go with him.

27. And he spake to his sons, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they
saddled him.

27. Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this great evil, to
transgress against our God in marrying strange wives?

27. Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly
unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.

27. I have seen thine adulteries, and thy neighings, the lewdness of
thy whoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woe
unto thee, O Jerusalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall it
once be?

28. Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now when
Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say unto you, Smite
Amnon; then kill him, fear not: have not I commanded you? be
courageous, and be valiant.

28. And he went and found his carcase cast in the way, and the ass
and the lion standing by the carcase: the lion had not eaten the
carcase, nor torn the ass.

28. And one
of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son in
law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.

28. And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth
eaten.

29. And the servants of Absalom did unto Amnon as Absalom had
commanded.

Then all the king’s sons arose, and every man gat him up upon his
mule, and fled.

29. And the prophet took up the carcase of the man of God, and laid
it upon the ass, and brought it back: and the old prophet came to the
city, to mourn and to bury him.

29. Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the
priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.

30. And it came to pass, while they were in the way, that tidings
came to David, saying, Absalom hath slain all the king’s sons, and
there is not one of them left.

30. And he laid his carcase in his own grave; and they mourned over
him, saying, Alas, my brother!

30. Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wards
of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business;

31. Then the king arose, and tare his garments, and lay on the
earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent.

31. And it came to pass, after he
had buried him, that he spake to his sons, saying, When I am dead,
then bury me in the sepulchre wherein the man of God is buried; lay my
bones beside his bones:

31. And
for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits.
Remember me, O my God, for good.




The Book of Esther

32. And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David’s brother, answered and
said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men
the king’s sons; for Amnon only is dead: for by the appointment of
Absalom this hath been determined from the day that he forced his
sister Tamar.

32. For the saying which he cried by the
word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel, and against all the
houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria, shall
surely come to pass.

33. Now therefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his
heart, to think that all the king’s sons are dead: for Amnon only is
dead.

33. After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but
made again of the lowest of the people priests of the high places:
whosoever would, he consecrated him, and he became one of the priests
of the high places.

34. But Absalom fled. And the young man that kept the watch lifted
up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came much people by the
way of the hill side behind him.

34. And this thing became sin unto the house of Jeroboam, even to
cut it off, and to destroy it from off the face of the earth.

35. And Jonadab said unto the king, Behold, the king’s sons come: as
thy servant said, so it is.

36. And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speaking,
that, behold, the king’s sons came, and lifted up their voice and
wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore.

37. But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, king
of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day.

38. So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.

39. And the soul of king David longed to go forth unto Absalom: for
he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.