1. And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in
Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on the side of
mount Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Bethlehemjudah.

1. And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that
they should kill David.

1. And it was told Joab, Behold, the king weepeth and
mourneth for Absalom.

1. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he
had slain all the prophets with the sword.

1. And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent
his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the
house of the LORD.

1. Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the
children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.

1. And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace
to Jerusalem.

1. Then Job answered and said,

1. The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

1. Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is
perverse in his lips, and is a fool.

1. The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud,
and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at
his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.

1. Thus saith the LORD, Go and get a potter’s earthen bottle, and
take of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of the
priests;

1. Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,

2. And his concubine played the whore against him, and went away
from him unto her father’s house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four
whole months.

2. But Jonathan Saul’s son delighted much in David: and Jonathan
told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now
therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and
abide in a secret place, and hide thyself:

2. And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the
people: for the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for
his son.

2. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the
gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of
one of them by to morrow about this time.

2. And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household, and Shebna the
scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.

2. And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent
messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of
David came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort
him.

2. And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and
said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and love
them that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the
LORD.

2. How long will ye vex my soul,
and break me in pieces with words?

2. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

2. Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he
that hasteth with his feet sinneth.

2. And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they
shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his
neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.

2. And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, which
is by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that I
shall tell thee,

2. And say, What is thy mother? A lioness: she lay down among lions,
she nourished her whelps among young lions.

3. And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto
her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple
of asses: and she brought him into her father’s house: and when the
father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.

3. And I will go out and
stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune
with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.

3. And the people gat them by stealth that day into the city, as
people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.

3. And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came
to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there.

3. And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of
trouble, and of rebuke, and blasphemy; for the children are come to
the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

3. But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest
thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters
unto thee? are not his servants come unto thee for to search, and to
overthrow, and to spy out the land?

3. Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thou
hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine
heart to seek God.

3. These ten times have ye
reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to
me.

3. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

3. The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth
against the LORD.

3. And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I
will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols,
and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to
the wizards.

3. And say, Hear ye the word of the LORD, O kings
of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem; Thus saith the LORD of hosts,
the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, the
which whosoever heareth, his ears shall tingle.

3. And she brought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, and
it learned to catch the prey; it devoured men.

4. And his father in law, the damsel’s father, retained him; and he
abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged
there.

4. And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said
unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David;
because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have
been to thee-ward very good:

4. But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud
voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!

4. But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and came
and sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that
he might die; and said, It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life;
for I am not better than my fathers.

4. It may be the LORD thy God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh,
whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living
God; and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard:
wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left.

4. Wherefore Hanun took David’s
servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midst
hard by their buttocks, and sent them away.

4. And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again through
the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them back unto
the LORD God of their fathers.

4. And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with
myself.

4. Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

4. Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his
neighbour.

4. And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord;
and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD of
hosts.

4. Because they have forsaken me, and have estranged this place, and
have burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their
fathers have known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place
with the blood of innocents;

4. The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, and
they brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt.

5. And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they arose early in
the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel’s father said
unto his son in law, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, and
afterward go your way.

5. For he did put his life in his hand,
and slew the Philistine, and the LORD wrought a great salvation for
all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt
thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?

5. And Joab
came into the house to the king, and said, Thou hast shamed this day
the faces of all thy servants, which this day have saved thy life, and
the lives of thy sons and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy
wives, and the lives of thy concubines;

5. And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, then an
angel touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.

5. So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

5. Then there went certain, and told David how the men were served.
And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed. And the
king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then
return.

5. And he set judges in the land throughout all the fenced cities of
Judah, city by city,

5. If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead
against me my reproach:

5. Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race.

5. A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
lies shall not escape.

5. And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be
wasted and dried up.

5. They have built also the high places
of Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto Baal,
which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind:

5. Now when she saw that she had waited, and her hope was lost, then
she took another of her whelps, and made him a young lion.

6. And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together:
for the damsel’s father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray
thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.

6. And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As the
LORD liveth, he shall not be slain.

6. In that thou lovest thine
enemies, and hatest thy friends. For thou hast declared this day, that
thou regardest neither princes nor servants: for this day I perceive,
that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had
pleased thee well.

6. And he looked, and, behold, there was a cake baken on the coals,
and a cruse of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid
him down again.

6. And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus
saith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, with
which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.

6. And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves
odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand
talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of
Mesopotamia, and out of Syriamaachah, and out of Zobah.

6. And said to the judges, Take heed what ye
do: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is with you in the
judgment.

6. Know now that God hath overthrown me, and
hath compassed me with his net.

6. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

6. Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a
friend to him that giveth gifts.

6. And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks of
defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall
wither.

6. Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that this place
shall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom,
but The valley of slaughter.

6. And he went up and down among the lions, he became a young lion,
and learned to catch the prey, and devoured men.

7. And when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him:
therefore he lodged there again.

7. And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all those
things.

And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as in
times past.

7. Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unto thy
servants: for I swear by the LORD, if thou go not forth, there will
not tarry one with thee this night: and that will be worse unto thee
than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now.

7. And the angel of the LORD came again the second time, and touched
him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for
thee.

7. Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour,
and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the
sword in his own land.

7. So they hired thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king of
Maachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medeba. And the
children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and
came to battle.

7. Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed and
do it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect of
persons, nor taking of gifts.

7. Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but
there is no judgment.

7. The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

7. All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his
friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are
wanting to him.

7. The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and
every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be
no more.

7. And I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this
place; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their
enemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives: and their
carcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for
the beasts of the earth.

7. And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste their
cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by the
noise of his roaring.

8. And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and
the damsel’s father said, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee. And they
tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.

8. And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the
Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from
him.

8. Then the king arose, and sat in the gate. And they told unto all
the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sit in the gate. And all the
people came before the king: for Israel had fled every man to his
tent.

8. And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of
that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God.

8. So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring
against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.

8. And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mighty men.

8. Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and of
the priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel, for the
judgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned to
Jerusalem.

8. He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set
darkness in my paths.

8. The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

8. He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth
understanding shall find good.

8. The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into
the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters
shall languish.

8. And I will make this city desolate, and an hissing; every one
that passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all the
plagues thereof.

8. Then the nations set against him on every side from the
provinces, and spread their net over him: he was taken in their pit.

9. And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and
his servant, his father in law, the damsel’s father, said unto him,
Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you tarry all
night: behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thine heart
may be merry; and to morrow get you early on your way, that thou
mayest go home.

9. And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon Saul, as he sat in his
house with his javelin in his hand: and David played with his hand.

9. And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of
Israel, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies, and
he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled
out of the land for Absalom.

9. And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, behold,
the word of the LORD came to him, and he said unto him, What doest
thou here, Elijah?

9. And when he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he is
come out to fight against thee: he sent messengers again unto
Hezekiah, saying,

9. And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
before the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by
themselves in the field.

9. And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the
LORD, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.

9. He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my
head.

9. The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

9. A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
lies shall perish.

9. Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave
networks, shall be confounded.

9. And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the
flesh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of
his friend in the siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, and
they that seek their lives, shall straiten them.

9. And they put him in ward in chains, and brought him to the king
of Babylon: they brought him into holds, that his voice should no more
be heard upon the mountains of Israel.

10. But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and
departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there
were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.

10. And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the
javelin: but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, and he smote the
javelin into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.

10. And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now
therefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back?

10. And he said, I have been very jealous for
the LORD God of hosts: for the children of Israel have forsaken thy
covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the
sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it
away.

10. Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah,
saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying,
Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.

10. Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and
behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians.

10. And what cause soever shall come to you of your brethren that
dwell in your cities, between blood and blood, between law and
commandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that they
trespass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and upon
your brethren: this do, and ye shall not trespass.

10. He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope
hath he removed like a tree.

10. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold:
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

10. Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to
have rule over princes.

10. And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make
sluices and ponds for fish.

10. Then shalt thou break the bottle in the sight of the men that go
with thee,

10. Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters:
she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters.

11. And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the
servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in
into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.

11. Saul also sent messengers unto David’s house, to watch him, and
to slay him in the morning: and Michal David’s wife told him, saying,
If thou save not thy life to night, to morrow thou shalt be slain.

11. And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying,
Speak unto the elders of Judah, saying, Why are ye the last to bring
the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to
the king, even to his house.

11. And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the LORD.

And, behold, the LORD passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the
mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the LORD; but the LORD
was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the LORD
was not in the earthquake:

11. Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to
all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shalt thou be delivered?

11. And the rest of the people he delivered unto the hand of Abishai
his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of
Ammon.

11. And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters
of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house
of Judah, for all the king’s matters: also the Levites shall be
officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with the
good.

11. He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me
unto him as one of his enemies.

11. Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them
there is great reward.

11. The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory
to pass over a transgression.

11. Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise
counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I
am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?

11. And shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of
hosts; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketh
a potter’s vessel, that cannot be made whole again: and they shall
bury them in Tophet, till there be no place to bury.

11. And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them that bare rule,
and her stature was exalted among the thick branches, and she appeared
in her height with the multitude of her branches.

12. And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into
the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will
pass over to Gibeah.

12. So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and
fled, and escaped.

12. Ye are my brethren, ye are my bones and my flesh: wherefore then
are ye the last to bring back the king?

12. And after the earthquake a fire; but
the LORD was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.

12. Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers
have destroyed; as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of
Eden which were in Thelasar?

12. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will help thee.

12. His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and
encamp round about my tabernacle.

12. Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret
faults.

12. The king’s wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is
as dew upon the grass.

12. Where are
they? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them
know what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.

12. Thus will I do unto this place, saith the LORD, and to the
inhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet:

12. But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground,
and the east wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods were broken and
withered; the fire consumed them.

13. And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one
of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.

13. And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a
pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth.

13. And say ye to Amasa,
Art thou not of my bone, and of my flesh? God do so to me, and more
also, if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the
room of Joab.

13. And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in
his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entering in of the cave.
And, behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What doest thou
here, Elijah?

13. Where is the king of Hamath, and
the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena,
and Ivah?

13. Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for
our people, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do that
which is good in his sight.

13. He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are
verily estranged from me.

13. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not
have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from the great transgression.

13. A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions
of a wife are a continual dropping.

13. The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are
deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of
the tribes thereof.

13. And the
houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, shall be
defiled as the place of Tophet, because of all the houses upon whose
roofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven, and have
poured out drink offerings unto other gods.

13. And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty
ground.

14. And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down
upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.

14. And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is
sick.

14. And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the
heart of one man; so that they sent this word unto the king, Return
thou, and all thy servants.

14. And he said, I have been very jealous for the
LORD God of hosts: because the children of Israel have forsaken thy
covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the
sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it
away.

14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the
messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up into the house of the
LORD, and spread it before the LORD.

14. So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before the
Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.

14. My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten
me.

14. Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.

14. House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent
wife is from the LORD.

14. The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof:
and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken
man staggereth in his vomit.

14. Then came Jeremiah from Tophet, whither the LORD had sent him to
prophesy; and he stood in the court of the LORD’s house; and said to
all the people,

14. And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hath
devoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong rod to be a sceptre to
rule. This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.

15. And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah:
and when he went in, he sat him down in a street of the city: for
there was no man that took them into his house to lodging.

15. And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring
him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.

15. So the king returned, and came to Jordan. And Judah came to
Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to conduct the king over Jordan.

15. And the LORD said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the
wilderness of Damascus: and when thou comest, anoint Hazael to be king
over Syria:

15. And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD, and said, O LORD God of
Israel, which dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God, even
thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast made heaven
and earth.

15. And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,
they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the
city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

15. They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a
stranger: I am an alien in their sight.

15. Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall
suffer hunger.

15. Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or
tail, branch or rush, may do.

15. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;
Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all the
evil that I have pronounced against it, because they have hardened
their necks, that they might not hear my words.

16. And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the
field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in
Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.

16. And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image
in the bed, with a pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster.

16. And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite, which was of Bahurim,
hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David.

16. And Jehu the son of Nimshi shalt thou anoint to be
king over Israel: and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abelmeholah shalt
thou anoint to be prophet in thy room.

16. LORD, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, LORD, thine eyes, and
see: and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to
reproach the living God.

16. And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before
Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were
beyond the river: and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer
went before them.

16. I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him
with my mouth.

16. He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he
that despiseth his ways shall die.

16. In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be
afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of
hosts, which he shaketh over it.

17. And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in
the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and
whence comest thou?

17. And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and
sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, He
said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?

17. And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the
servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty
servants with him; and they went over Jordan before the king.

17. And it shall come to pass, that him that escapeth the sword of
Hazael shall Jehu slay: and him that escapeth from the sword of Jehu
shall Elisha slay.

17. Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the
nations and their lands,

17. And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passed
over Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against
them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians,
they fought with him.

17. My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the
children’s sake of mine own body.

17. He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that
which he hath given will he pay him again.

17. And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one
that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the
counsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it.

18. And he said unto him, We are passing from
Bethlehemjudah toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I: and
I went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am now going to the house of the LORD;
and there is no man that receiveth me to house.

18. So David fled,
and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul
had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.

18. And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king’s
household, and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son of Gera
fell down before the king, as he was come over Jordan;

18. Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which
have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him.

18. And have cast their gods into the fire:
for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone:
therefore they have destroyed them.

18. But the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the
Syrians seven thousand men which fought in chariots, and forty
thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.

18. Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against
me.

18. Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare
for his crying.

18. In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the
language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be
called, The city of destruction.

19. Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and there
is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young
man which is with thy servants: there is no want of any thing.

19. And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in
Ramah.

19. And said
unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me, neither do
thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my
lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to
his heart.

19. So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who
was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the
twelfth: and Elijah passed by him, and cast his mantle upon him.

19. Now therefore, O LORD our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out
of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art
the LORD God, even thou only.

19. And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the
worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became his
servants: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any
more.

19. All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are
turned against me.

19. A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou
deliver him, yet thou must do it again.

19. In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of
the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD.

20. And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thy
wants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.

20. And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the
company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed
over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they
also prophesied.

20. For thy servant doth know that I have sinned: therefore, behold,
I am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph to go down to
meet my lord the king.

20. And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I
pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee.
And he said unto him, Go back again: for what have I done to thee?

20. Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith
the LORD God of Israel, That which thou hast prayed to me against
Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.

20. My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped
with the skin of my teeth.

20. Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise
in thy latter end.

20. And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of
hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD because
of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one,
and he shall deliver them.

21. So he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the
asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.

21. And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they
prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time,
and they prophesied also.

21. But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, Shall not
Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORD’s
anointed?

21. And he returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen, and slew
them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and
gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and went after
Elijah, and ministered unto him.

21. This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning him; The
virgin the daughter of Zion hath despised thee, and laughed thee to
scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.

21. Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the
hand of God hath touched me.

21. There are many devices in a man’s heart; nevertheless the
counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.

21. And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall
know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea,
they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.

22. Now as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of
the city, certain sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and
beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man,
saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we may
know him.

22. Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in
Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one
said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah.

22. And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons
of Zeruiah, that ye should this day be adversaries unto me? shall
there any man be put to death this day in Israel? for do not I know
that I am this day king over Israel?

22. Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast
thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against
the Holy One of Israel.

22. Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my
flesh?

22. The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better
than a liar.

22. And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and
they shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them,
and shall heal them.

23. And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and
said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly;
seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this folly.

23. And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God
was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to
Naioth in Ramah.

23. Therefore the king said
unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. And the king sware unto him.

23. By thy messengers thou hast reproached the LORD, and hast said,
With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of the
mountains, to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedar
trees thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter into
the lodgings of his borders, and into the forest of his Carmel.

23. Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were
printed in a book!

23. The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall
abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.

23. In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria,
and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria,
and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.

24. Behold, here is my daughter a maiden, and his concubine; them I
will bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them what seemeth
good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.

24. And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before
Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that
night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?

24. And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king, and
had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his
clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came again in
peace.

24. I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my
feet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places.

24. That they were graven with an iron pen and
lead in the rock for ever!

24. A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so
much as bring it to his mouth again.

24. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with
Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land:

25. But the men would not hearken to him: so the man took his
concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and
abused her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to
spring, they let her go.

25. And it came to pass, when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the
king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me,
Mephibosheth?

25. Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it, and of ancient
times that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou
shouldest be to lay waste fenced cities into ruinous heaps.

25. For I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:

25. Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one
that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.

25. Whom the LORD
of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria
the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.

26. Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at
the door of the man’s house where her lord was, till it was light.

26. And he answered, My lord, O king, my servant
deceived me: for thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass, that I may
ride thereon, and go to the king; because thy servant is lame.

26. Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were
dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and as
the green herb, as the grass on the house tops, and as corn blasted
before it be grown up.

26. And
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I
see God:

26. He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a
son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.

27. And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the
house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman his
concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were
upon the threshold.

27. And he hath slandered thy servant unto my lord the king; but my
lord the king is as an angel of God: do therefore what is good in
thine eyes.

27. But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and
thy rage against me.

27. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall
behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.

27. Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from
the words of knowledge.

28. And he said unto her, Up, and let us be going. But none
answered.

Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him
unto his place.

28. For all of my father’s house were but dead men before my lord
the king: yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at
thine own table. What right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto
the king?

28. Because thy rage against me and thy tumult is come up into mine
ears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy
lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.

28. But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the
matter is found in me?

28. An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the
wicked devoureth iniquity.

29. And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid
hold on his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into
twelve pieces, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.

29. And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any
more of thy matters? I have said, Thou and Ziba divide the land.

29. And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such
things as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which
springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and
plant vineyards, and eat the fruits thereof.

29. Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath
bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a
judgment.

29. Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of
fools.

30. And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed
done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of
the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take advice, and
speak your minds.

30. And Mephibosheth said unto the king, Yea, let him take all,
forasmuch as my lord the king is come again in peace unto his own
house.

30. And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall yet
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.

31. And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim, and went
over Jordan with the king, to conduct him over Jordan.

31. For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that
escape out of mount Zion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

32. Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even fourscore years old: and
he had provided the king of sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim; for
he was a very great man.

32. Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He
shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come
before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it.

33. And the king said unto Barzillai, Come thou over with me, and I
will feed thee with me in Jerusalem.

33. By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall
not come into this city, saith the LORD.

34. And Barzillai said unto the king, How long have I to live, that
I should go up with the king unto Jerusalem?

34. For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, and
for my servant David’s sake.

35. I am this day
fourscore years old: and can I discern between good and evil? can thy
servant taste what I eat or what I drink? can I hear any more the
voice of singing men and singing women? wherefore then should thy
servant be yet a burden unto my lord the king?

35. And it came to pass that night, that the angel of the LORD went
out, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore and
five thousand: and when they arose early in the morning, behold, they
were all dead corpses.

36. Thy servant will
go a little way over Jordan with the king: and why should the king
recompense it me with such a reward?

36. So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned,
and dwelt at Nineveh.

37. Let thy servant, I pray
thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city, and be buried
by the grave of my father and of my mother. But behold thy servant
Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king; and do to him what
shall seem good unto thee.

37. And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of
Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with
the sword: and they escaped into the land of Armenia. And Esarhaddon
his son reigned in his stead.

38. And the king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will
do to him that which shall seem good unto thee: and whatsoever thou
shalt require of me, that will I do for thee.

39. And all the people went over Jordan. And when the king was come
over, the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned unto
his own place.

40. Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him:
and all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the
people of Israel.

41. And, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said
unto the king, Why have our brethren the men of Judah stolen thee
away, and have brought the king, and his household, and all David’s
men with him, over Jordan?

42. And all the men of Judah answered
the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us: wherefore
then be ye angry for this matter? have we eaten at all of the king’s
cost? or hath he given us any gift?

43. And the men of Israel
answered the men of Judah, and said, We have ten parts in the king,
and we have also more right in David than ye: why then did ye despise
us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king?
And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the
men of Israel.