1. Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation
was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the
land of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpeh.

1. And
David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan,
What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy
father, that he seeketh my life?

1. And there happened to be there a man of Belial, whose name was
Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and he blew a trumpet, and
said, We have no part in David, neither have we inheritance in the son
of Jesse: every man to his tents, O Israel.

1. And Benhadad the king of Syria gathered all his host together:
and there were thirty and two kings with him, and horses, and
chariots; and he went up and besieged Samaria, and warred against it.

1. In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And the prophet
Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the
LORD, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.

1. And it came to pass, that after the year was expired, at the time
that kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army, and
wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged
Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, and
destroyed it.

1. It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and
the children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came
against Jehoshaphat to battle.

1. Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,

1. The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend thee;

1. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is
deceived thereby is not wise.

1. In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargon the king
of Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it;

1. Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chief
governor in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah prophesied
these things.

1. And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the
tenth day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to
enquire of the LORD, and sat before me.

2. And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of
Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God,
four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.

2. And he said unto him, God
forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either
great or small, but that he will shew it me: and why should my father
hide this thing from me? it is not so.

2. So every man of Israel went up from after David, and followed
Sheba the son of Bichri: but the men of Judah clave unto their king,
from Jordan even to Jerusalem.

2. And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city, and
said unto him, Thus saith Benhadad,

2. Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto the LORD,
saying,

2. And David took the crown of their king from off his head, and
found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in
it; and it was set upon David’s head: and he brought also exceeding
much spoil out of the city.

2. Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh
a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria;
and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.

2. Therefore do
my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.

2. Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of
Zion;

2. The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh
him to anger sinneth against his own soul.

2. At
the same time spake the LORD by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and
loose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy
foot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.

2. Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks
that were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the
LORD.

2. Then came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,

3. (Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel
were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us,
how was this wickedness?

3. And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth
that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan
know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as the LORD liveth, and as
thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.

3. And David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the
ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put
them in ward, and fed them, but went not in unto them. So they were
shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood.

3. Thy silver and thy gold is
mine; thy wives also and thy children, even the goodliest, are mine.

3. I beseech thee, O LORD, remember now how I have walked
before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that
which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

3. And he brought out the people that were in it, and cut them with
saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt David
with all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the
people returned to Jerusalem.

3. And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, and
proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.

3. I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my
understanding causeth me to answer.

3. Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice;
Selah.

3. It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool
will be meddling.

3. And the LORD said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked naked
and barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and upon
Ethiopia;

3. And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forth
Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah unto him, The LORD hath
not called thy name Pashur, but Magormissabib.

3. Son of man,
speak unto the elders of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith the
Lord GOD; Are ye come to enquire of me? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

4. And the Levite, the husband of the
woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that
belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.

4. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I
will even do it for thee.

4. Then said the king to Amasa, Assemble me the men of Judah within
three days, and be thou here present.

4. And the king of Israel answered and said, My lord, O king,
according to thy saying, I am thine, and all that I have.

4. And it came to pass, afore Isaiah was gone out into the middle
court, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying,

4. And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer
with the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slew
Sippai, that was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.

4. And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD:
even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

4. Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,

4. Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy
counsel.

4. The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall
he beg in harvest, and have nothing.

4. So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptians
prisoners, and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and
barefoot, even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.

4. For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will make thee a terror to
thyself, and to all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword of
their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it: and I will give all
Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them
captive into Babylon, and shall slay them with the sword.

4. Wilt thou judge them, son of man, wilt thou judge them? cause
them to know the abominations of their fathers:

5. And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round
about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine
have they forced, that she is dead.

5. And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to morrow is the new moon,
and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go,
that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.

5. So Amasa went to assemble the men of Judah: but he tarried longer
than the set time which he had appointed him.

5. And the messengers came again, and said, Thus speaketh Benhadad,
saying, Although I have sent unto thee, saying, Thou shalt deliver me
thy silver, and thy gold, and thy wives, and thy children;

5. Turn again,
and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the LORD, the
God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy
tears: behold, I will heal thee: on the third day thou shalt go up
unto the house of the LORD.

5. And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son
of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear
staff was like a weaver’s beam.

5. And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem,
in the house of the LORD, before the new court,

5. That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the
hypocrite but for a moment?

5. We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we
will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.

5. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of
understanding will draw it out.

5. And they shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia their
expectation, and of Egypt their glory.

5. Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city, and all
the labours thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all the
treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their
enemies, which shall spoil them, and take them, and carry them to
Babylon.

5. And say unto
them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when I chose Israel, and
lifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and made
myself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up mine
hand unto them, saying, I am the LORD your God;

6. And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her
throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel: for they have
committed lewdness and folly in Israel.

6. If thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked
leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a
yearly sacrifice there for all the family.

6. And David said to Abishai, Now shall Sheba the son of Bichri do
us more harm than did Absalom: take thou thy lord’s servants, and
pursue after him, lest he get him fenced cities, and escape us.

6. Yet I
will send my servants unto thee to morrow about this time, and they
shall search thine house, and the houses of thy servants; and it shall
be, that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall put it in
their hand, and take it away.

6. And I will add unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliver
thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will
defend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David’s sake.

6. And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great
stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each
hand, and six on each foot and he also was the son of the giant.

6. And said, O LORD
God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thou
over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there not
power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?

6. Though his excellency mount up to
the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds;

6. Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him
from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.

6. Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful
man who can find?

6. And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold,
such is our expectation, whither we flee for help to be delivered from
the king of Assyria: and how shall we escape?

6. And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house shall go into
captivity: and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die,
and shalt be buried there, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thou
hast prophesied lies.

6. In the day that I
lifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land of
Egypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk and
honey, which is the glory of all lands:

7. Behold, ye are all children of Israel; give here your advice and
counsel.

7. If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if
he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.

7. And there went out after him Joab’s men, and the Cherethites, and
the Pelethites, and all the mighty men: and they went out of
Jerusalem, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

7. Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and
said, Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh mischief: for he
sent unto me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and
for my gold; and I denied him not.

7. And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid it
on the boil, and he recovered.

7. But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David’s
brother slew him.

7. Art not
thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before
thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for
ever?

7. Yet he shall
perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say,
Where is he?

7. Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember
the name of the LORD our God.

7. The just man walketh in his integrity: his
children are blessed after him.

7. O LORD, thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived; thou art
stronger than I, and hast prevailed: I am in derision daily, every one
mocketh me.

7. Then said I unto them,
Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, and defile not
yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

8. And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of
us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.

8. Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast
brought thy servant into a covenant of the LORD with thee:
notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why
shouldest thou bring me to thy father?

8. When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa went
before them. And Joab’s garment that he had put on was girded unto
him, and upon it a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins in the
sheath thereof; and as he went forth it fell out.

8. And all the elders and all the people said unto him, Hearken not
unto him, nor consent.

8. And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the
LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up into the house of the LORD
the third day?

8. These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand of his servants.

8. And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary
therein for thy name, saying,

8. He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be
found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.

8. They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand
upright.

8. A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all
evil with his eyes.

8. For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil;
because the word of the LORD was made a reproach unto me, and a
derision, daily.

8. But they rebelled against me, and would not hearken unto me: they
did not every man cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither
did they forsake the idols of Egypt: then I said, I will pour out my
fury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of
the land of Egypt.

9. But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah; we
will go up by lot against it;

9. And Jonathan said, Far be
it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my
father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?

9. And Joab said to Amasa, Art thou in health, my brother? And Joab
took Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him.

9. Wherefore he said unto the messengers of Benhadad, Tell my lord
the king, All that thou didst send for to thy servant at the first I
will do: but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and
brought him word again.

9. And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have of the
LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he hath spoken: shall the
shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?

9. If, when evil cometh upon us, as
the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before this
house, and in thy presence, (for thy name is in this house,) and cry
unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help.

9. The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall
his place any more behold him.

9. Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.

9. Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?

9. Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more
in his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up
in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.

9. But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be polluted
before the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myself
known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.

10. And we will take ten men of an
hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and an hundred of a
thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to fetch victual for the
people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin,
according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.

10. Then
said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father
answer thee roughly?

10. But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab’s hand: so
he smote him therewith in the fifth rib, and shed out his bowels to
the ground, and struck him not again; and he died. So Joab and Abishai
his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.

10. And Benhadad sent unto him, and said, The gods do so unto me,
and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for
all the people that follow me.

10. And
Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten
degrees: nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees.

10. And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir,
whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the
land of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed them not;

10. His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall
restore their goods.

10. Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike
abomination to the LORD.

10. For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report,
say they, and we will report it. All my familiars watched for my
halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail
against him, and we shall take our revenge on him.

10. Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt,
and brought them into the wilderness.

11. So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit
together as one man.

11. And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and
let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the
field.

11. And one of Joab’s men stood by him, and said, He that favoureth
Joab, and he that is for David, let him go after Joab.

11. And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him
that girdeth on his harness boast himself as he that putteth it off.

11. And Isaiah the prophet cried unto the LORD: and he brought the
shadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down in the dial of
Ahaz.

11. Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy
possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.

11. His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down
with him in the dust.

11. Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure,
and whether it be right.

11. But the LORD is with me as a mighty terrible one: therefore my
persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall be
greatly ashamed; for they shall not prosper: their everlasting
confusion shall never be forgotten.

11. And I gave them my statutes, and shewed them my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them.

12. And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of
Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?

12. And Jonathan said unto David, O LORD God of Israel, when I have
sounded my father about to morrow any time, or the third day, and,
behold, if there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee,
and shew it thee;

12. And Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst of the highway. And
when the man saw that all the people stood still, he removed Amasa out
of the highway into the field, and cast a cloth upon him, when he saw
that every one that came by him stood still.

12. And it came to pass, when Benhadad heard this message, as he
was drinking, he and the kings in the pavilions, that he said unto his
servants, Set yourselves in array. And they set themselves in array
against the city.

12. At that time Berodachbaladan, the son of Baladan, king of
Babylon, sent letters and a present unto Hezekiah: for he had heard
that Hezekiah had been sick.

12. O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might
against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we
what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.

12. Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under
his tongue;

12. The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even
both of them.

12. But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest the
reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee
have I opened my cause.

12. Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me
and them, that they might know that I am the LORD that sanctify them.

13. Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial, which
are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from
Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of
their brethren the children of Israel.

13. The LORD do so and much more to Jonathan: but
if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thee, and
send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and the LORD be with
thee, as he hath been with my father.

13. When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on
after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

13. And, behold, there came a prophet unto Ahab king of Israel,
saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast thou seen all this great multitude?
behold, I will deliver it into thine hand this day; and thou shalt
know that I am the LORD.

13. And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and shewed them all the house
of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and
the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that
was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all
his dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.

13. And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones,
their wives, and their children.

13. Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it
still within his mouth:

13. Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and
thou shalt be satisfied with bread.

13. Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD: for he hath delivered
the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.

13. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness:
they walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them; and my sabbaths they greatly
polluted: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon them in the
wilderness, to consume them.

14. But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of
the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of
Israel.

14. And thou shalt not only while yet I live shew me the kindness of
the LORD, that I die not:

14. And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to
Bethmaachah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and
went also after him.

14. And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus saith the LORD, Even
by the young men of the princes of the provinces. Then he said, Who
shall order the battle? And he answered, Thou.

14. Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto
him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And
Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon.

14. Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the
son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph,
came the Spirit of the LORD in the midst of the congregation;

14. Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it
is the gall of asps within him.

14. It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone
his way, then he boasteth.

14. Cursed be the day wherein I was born: let not the day wherein my
mother bare me be blessed.

14. But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be polluted
before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them out.

15. And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of
the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the
inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.

15. But also thou shalt not cut off thy
kindness from my house for ever: no, not when the LORD hath cut off
the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.

15. And they came and besieged him in Abel of Bethmaachah, and they
cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench: and all
the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.

15. Then he numbered the young men of the princes of the provinces,
and they were two hundred and thirty two: and after them he numbered
all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.

15. And he said, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah
answered, All the things that are in mine house have they seen: there
is nothing among my treasures that I have not shewed them.

15. And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the LORD unto you, Be not afraid
nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not
yours, but God’s.

15. He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again:
God shall cast them out of his belly.

15. There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of
knowledge are a precious jewel.

15. Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A
man child is born unto thee; making him very glad.

15. Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that I
would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing
with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands;

16. Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men
lefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not
miss.

16. So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let
the LORD even require it at the hand of David’s enemies.

16. Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray
you, unto Joab, Come near hither, that I may speak with thee.

16. And they went out at noon. But Benhadad was drinking himself
drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty and two kings
that helped him.

16. And Isaiah said unto Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD.

16. To morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the
cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, before
the wilderness of Jeruel.

16. He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper’s tongue shall slay
him.

16. Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a
pledge of him for a strange woman.

16. And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew, and
repented not: and let him hear the cry in the morning, and the
shouting at noontide;

16. Because
they despised my judgments, and walked not in my statutes, but
polluted my sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.

17. And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, were numbered four
hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.

17. And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him:
for he loved him as he loved his own soul.

17. And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou
Joab? And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the
words of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear.

17. And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out
first; and Benhadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men
come out of Samaria.

17. Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that
which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall be
carried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

17. Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand
ye still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and
Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go out against them:
for the LORD will be with you.

17. He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and
butter.

17. Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth
shall be filled with gravel.

17. Because he slew me not from the womb; or
that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always
great with me.

17. Nevertheless mine eye spared them from destroying them, neither
did I make an end of them in the wilderness.

18. And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of
God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first
to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the LORD said,
Judah shall go up first.

18. Then Jonathan said to David, To morrow is the new moon: and thou
shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty.

18. Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old time,
saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel: and so they ended the
matter.

18. And he said, Whether they be come out for peace, take them
alive; or whether they be come out for war, take them alive.

18. And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt
beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace
of the king of Babylon.

18. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: and
all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD,
worshipping the LORD.

18. That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not
swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be,
and he shall not rejoice therein.

18. Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice
make war.

18. Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labour and sorrow,
that my days should be consumed with shame?

18. But I said unto their children in the wilderness, Walk ye not in
the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their judgments, nor
defile yourselves with their idols:

19. And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped
against Gibeah.

19. And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down
quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the
business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.

19. I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: thou
seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou
swallow up the inheritance of the LORD?

19. So these young men of the princes of the provinces came out of
the city, and the army which followed them.

19. Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD
which thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if peace and
truth be in my days?

19. And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of the
children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel
with a loud voice on high.

19. Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he
hath violently taken away an house which he builded not;

19. He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore
meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.

19. I am the LORD your God; walk
in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them;

20. And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and
the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at
Gibeah.

20. And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I
shot at a mark.

20. And Joab answered and
said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or
destroy.

20. And they slew every one his man: and the Syrians fled; and
Israel pursued them: and Benhadad the king of Syria escaped on an
horse with the horsemen.

20. And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and
all his might, and how he made a pool, and a conduit, and brought
water into the city, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?

20. And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the
wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and
said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in
the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets,
so shall ye prosper.

20. Surely
he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that
which he desired.

20. Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put
out in obscure darkness.

20. And hallow
my sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that ye may
know that I am the LORD your God.

21. And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and
destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty and two
thousand men.

21. And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows.
If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side
of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no
hurt; as the LORD liveth.

21. The matter is not so: but a man of mount Ephraim, Sheba the son
of Bichri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even
against David: deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And
the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee
over the wall.

21. And the king of Israel went out, and smote the horses and
chariots, and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.

21. And Hezekiah slept with his
fathers: and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.

21. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers
unto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness, as they
went out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

21. There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man
look for his goods.

21. An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the
end thereof shall not be blessed.

21. Notwithstanding the children rebelled against me: they walked
not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, which if a
man do, he shall even live in them; they polluted my sabbaths: then I
said, I would pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger
against them in the wilderness.

22. And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set
their battle again in array in the place where they put themselves in
array the first day.

22. But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are
beyond thee; go thy way: for the LORD hath sent thee away.

22. Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom. And they
cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and cast it out to Joab.
And he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to
his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.

22. And the prophet came to the king of Israel, and said unto him,
Go, strengthen thyself, and mark, and see what thou doest: for at the
return of the year the king of Syria will come up against thee.

22. And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set
ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which
were come against Judah; and they were smitten.

22. In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every
hand of the wicked shall come upon him.

22. Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and
he shall save thee.

22. Nevertheless I withdrew mine hand, and wrought for my name’s
sake, that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen, in
whose sight I brought them forth.

23. (And the children of Israel went up and wept before the LORD
until even, and asked counsel of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up again
to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the LORD
said, Go up against him.)

23. And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of,
behold, the LORD be between thee and me for ever.

23. Now Joab was over all the host of Israel: and Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites:

23. And the servants of the king of Syria said unto him, Their gods
are gods of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we; but let
us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger
than they.

23. For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the
inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and when
they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to
destroy another.

23. When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of
his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating.

23. Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; and a false
balance is not good.

23. I lifted up mine hand unto them also in the wilderness, that I
would scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them through the
countries;

24. And the children of Israel came near
against the children of Benjamin the second day.

24. So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was
come, the king sat him down to eat meat.

24. And
Adoram was over the tribute: and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was
recorder:

24. And do this thing, Take the kings away, every man out of his
place, and put captains in their rooms:

24. And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness,
they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies
fallen to the earth, and none escaped.

24. He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall
strike him through.

24. Man’s goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his
own way?

24. Because they had not executed my judgments, but had
despised my statutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyes
were after their fathers’ idols.

25. And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second
day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again
eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.

25. And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a
seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul’s side,
and David’s place was empty.

25. And Sheva was scribe: and Zadok and Abiathar were the
priests:

25. And number thee an army,
like the army that thou hast lost, horse for horse, and chariot for
chariot: and we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we
shall be stronger than they. And he hearkened unto their voice, and
did so.

25. And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil
of them, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead
bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves,
more than they could carry away: and they were three days in gathering
of the spoil, it was so much.

25. It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering
sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.

25. It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is
holy, and after vows to make enquiry.

25. Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, and
judgments whereby they should not live;

26. Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up,
and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before the
LORD, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt offerings and
peace offerings before the LORD.

26. Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he thought,
Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.

26. And Ira also the Jairite was a chief ruler about David.

26. And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Benhadad
numbered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against Israel.

26. And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of
Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of the
same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

26. All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown
shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his
tabernacle.

26. A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over
them.

26. And I polluted them in
their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all that
openeth the womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end that
they might know that I am the LORD.

27. And the children of Israel enquired of the LORD, (for the ark of
the covenant of God was there in those days,

27. And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of
the month, that David’s place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan
his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither
yesterday, nor to day?

27. And the children of Israel were numbered, and were all present,
and went against them: and the children of Israel pitched before them
like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.

27. Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and
Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with
joy; for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies.

27. The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise
up against him.

27. The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the
inward parts of the belly.

27. Therefore, son of man, speak unto the house of Israel, and say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Yet in this your fathers have
blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.

28. And Phinehas, the
son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days,)
saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of
Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And the LORD said, Go up; for
to morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.

28. And Jonathan answered Saul, David
earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem:

28. And there came a man of God, and spake unto the king of Israel,
and said, Thus saith the LORD, Because the Syrians have said, The LORD
is God of the hills, but he is not God of the valleys, therefore will
I deliver all this great multitude into thine hand, and ye shall know
that I am the LORD.

28. And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and
trumpets unto the house of the LORD.

28. The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow
away in the day of his wrath.

28. Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by
mercy.

28. For when I had brought them into the land, for the which I
lifted up mine hand to give it to them, then they saw every high hill,
and all the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, and
there they presented the provocation of their offering: there also
they made their sweet savour, and poured out there their drink
offerings.

29. And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeah.

29. And he said, Let
me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and
my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found
favour in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my
brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king’s table.

29. And they pitched one over against the other seven days. And so
it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined: and the
children of Israel slew of the Syrians an hundred thousand footmen in
one day.

29. And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries,
when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of
Israel.

29. This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage
appointed unto him by God.

29. The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old
men is the grey head.

29. Then I said unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go?
And the name whereof is called Bamah unto this day.

30. And the children of Israel went up against the children of
Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah,
as at other times.

30. Then Saul’s anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto
him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that
thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion, and unto the
confusion of thy mother’s nakedness?

30. But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and there a wall fell
upon twenty and seven thousand of the men that were left. And Benhadad
fled, and came into the city, into an inner chamber.

30. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him rest
round about.

30. The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the
inward parts of the belly.

30. Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? and commit ye
whoredom after their abominations?

31. And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and
were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people,
and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to
the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty
men of Israel.

31. For as long as the son of
Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy
kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely
die.

31. And his servants said unto him, Behold now, we have heard that
the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let us, I pray
thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our heads, and go out
to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save thy life.

31. And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years
old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years in
Jerusalem.

And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

31. For when ye offer your
gifts, when ye make your sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute
yourselves with all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I be
enquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

32. And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before
us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and
draw them from the city unto the highways.

32. And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him,
Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done?

32. So they girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their
heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, Thy servant Benhadad
saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he said, Is he yet alive? he is
my brother.

32. And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not
from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD.

32. And that which cometh into your mind shall not be at all, that
ye say, We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries,
to serve wood and stone.

33. And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put
themselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers in wait of Israel came
forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.

33. And Saul cast a
javelin at him to smite him: whereby Jonathan knew that it was
determined of his father to slay David.

33. Now the men did diligently observe whether any thing would come
from him, and did hastily catch it: and they said, Thy brother
Benhadad. Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Benhadad came forth to
him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.

33. Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet the
people had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.

33. As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand, and
with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, will I rule over
you:

34. And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all
Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was near
them.

34. So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no
meat the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David,
because his father had done him shame.

34. And Benhadad said unto him, The cities, which my father took
from thy father, I will restore; and thou shalt make streets for thee
in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will send
thee away with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him, and sent
him away.

34. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold,
they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who is
mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.

34. And I will bring you out from the people, and will gather
you out of the countries wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand,
and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out.

35. And the LORD smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of
Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand
and an hundred men: all these drew the sword.

35. And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into
the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.

35. And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his
neighbour in the word of the LORD, Smite me, I pray thee. And the man
refused to smite him.

35. And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with
Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly:

35. And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and
there will I plead with you face to face.

36. So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the
men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted unto
the liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.

36. And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I
shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.

36. Then said he unto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of
the LORD, behold, as soon as thou art departed from me, a lion shall
slay thee.

And as soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and slew
him.

36. And he joined
himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the
ships in Eziongaber.

36. Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the
land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD.

37. And the liers in wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the
liers in wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the
edge of the sword.

37. And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which
Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the
arrow beyond thee?

37. Then he found another man, and said, Smite me, I pray thee. And
the man smote him, so that in smiting he wounded him.

37. Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against
Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah,
the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they
were not able to go to Tarshish.

37. And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you
into the bond of the covenant:

38. Now there was an appointed sign between the men of Israel and
the liers in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke rise
up out of the city.

38. And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make
speed, haste, stay not. And Jonathan’s lad gathered up the arrows, and
came to his master.

38. So the prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and
disguised himself with ashes upon his face.

38. And I will purge out from among
you the rebels, and them that transgress against me: I will bring them
forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enter
into the land of Israel: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

39. And when the men of Israel retired in the battle, Benjamin began
to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they
said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.

39. But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the
matter.

39. And as the king passed by, he cried unto the king: and he said,
Thy servant went out into the midst of the battle; and, behold, a man
turned aside, and brought a man unto me, and said, Keep this man: if
by any means he be missing, then shall thy life be for his life, or
else thou shalt pay a talent of silver.

39. As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD; Go ye,
serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will not
hearken unto me: but pollute ye my holy name no more with your gifts,
and with your idols.

40. But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a
pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, behold, the
flame of the city ascended up to heaven.

40. And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him,
Go, carry them to the city.

40. And as thy servant was busy here and there, he was gone. And the
king of Israel said unto him, So shall thy judgment be; thyself hast
decided it.

40. For in mine holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of
Israel, saith the Lord GOD, there shall all the house of Israel, all
of them in the land, serve me: there will I accept them, and there
will I require your offerings, and the firstfruits of your oblations,
with all your holy things.

41. And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin
were amazed: for they saw that evil was come upon them.

41. And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place
toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed
himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with
another, until David exceeded.

41. And he hasted, and took the ashes away from his face; and the
king of Israel discerned him that he was of the prophets.

41. I will accept you with your sweet savour, when I bring you out
from the people, and gather you out of the countries wherein ye have
been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you before the heathen.

42. Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto
the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and them
which came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.

42. And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have
sworn both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, The LORD be between
me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose
and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.

42. And he said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Because thou hast let
go out of thy hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction,
therefore thy life shall go for his life, and thy people for his
people.

42. And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall bring you
into the land of Israel, into the country for the which I lifted up
mine hand to give it to your fathers.

43. Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them,
and trode them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the
sunrising.

43. And the king of Israel went to his house heavy and displeased,
and came to Samaria.

43. And there shall ye remember your ways, and all your doings,
wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall lothe yourselves in your
own sight for all your evils that ye have committed.

44. And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were
men of valour.

44. And ye shall know that I am the LORD when I have wrought with
you for my name’s sake, not according to your wicked ways, nor
according to your corrupt doings, O ye house of Israel, saith the Lord
GOD.

45. And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of
Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men;
and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of
them.

45. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

46. So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five
thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valour.

46. Son of
man, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the
south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field;

47. But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the
rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.

47. And
say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the LORD; Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall
devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flame
shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall
be burned therein.

48. And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of
Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men
of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: also they set
on fire all the cities that they came to.

48. And all flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it: it
shall not be quenched.

49. Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! they say of me, Doth he not speak
parables?