1. David therefore
departed thence, and escaped to the cave Adullam: and when his
brethren and all his father’s house heard it, they went down thither
to him.

1. And David spake unto the LORD the words of this song in the day
that the LORD had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies,
and out of the hand of Saul:

1. And they continued three years without war between Syria and
Israel.

1. Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
thirty and one years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jedidah,
the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.

1. Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this is
the altar of the burnt offering for Israel.

1. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son
king in his stead: for the band of men that came with the Arabians to
the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king
of Judah reigned.

1. Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and
said,

1. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far
from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

1. A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving
favour rather than silver and gold.

1. The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, that
thou art wholly gone up to the housetops?

1. Thus saith the LORD; Go down to the house of the king of Judah,
and speak there this word,

1. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in
debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto
him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about
four hundred men.

2. And he said, The LORD is my rock,
and my fortress, and my deliverer;

2. And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king
of Judah came down to the king of Israel.

2. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and
walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the
right hand or to the left.

2. And David commanded to gather together the strangers that were in
the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to build
the house of God.

2. Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and
he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was Athaliah
the daughter of Omri.

2. Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be
profitable unto himself?

2. O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the
night season, and am not silent.

2. The rich and poor meet together: the LORD is the maker of them
all.

2. Thou that art full of
stirs, a tumultuous city, joyous city: thy slain men are not slain
with the sword, nor dead in battle.

2. And say, Hear the word of the LORD, O
king of Judah, that sittest upon the throne of David, thou, and thy
servants, and thy people that enter in by these gates:

2. Now,
thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the bloody city?
yea, thou shalt shew her all her abominations.

3. And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the
king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth,
and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.

3. The God of my rock; in him
will I trust: he is my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high
tower, and my refuge, my saviour; thou savest me from violence.

3. And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that
Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the
hand of the king of Syria?

3. And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that
the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the
scribe, to the house of the LORD, saying,

3. And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors
of the gates, and for the joinings; and brass in abundance without
weight;

3. He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab: for his mother
was his counsellor to do wickedly.

3. Is it any pleasure to the Almighty,
that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy
ways perfect?

3. But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

3. A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the
simple pass on, and are punished.

3. All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archers:
all that are found in thee are bound together, which have fled from
far.

3. Thus saith
the LORD; Execute ye judgment and righteousness, and deliver the
spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do no
violence to the stranger, the fatherless, nor the widow, neither shed
innocent blood in this place.

3. Then say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD, The city sheddeth blood
in the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols against
herself to defile herself.

4. And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with
him all the while that David was in the hold.

4. I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I
be saved from mine enemies.

4. And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt
thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the
king of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my horses
as thy horses.

4. Go up to Hilkiah the
high priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the
house of the LORD, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the
people:

4. Also cedar trees in abundance: for the Zidonians and they
of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David.

4. Wherefore he did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house of
Ahab: for they were his counsellors after the death of his father to
his destruction.

4. Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he
enter with thee into judgment?

4. Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver
them.

4. By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and
life.

4. Therefore said I, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly, labour
not to comfort me, because of the spoiling of the daughter of my
people.

4. For if ye do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by the
gates of this house kings sitting upon the throne of David, riding in
chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.

4. Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast
defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hast
caused thy days to draw near, and art come even unto thy years:
therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a mocking
to all countries.

5. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold;
depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and
came into the forest of Hareth.

5. When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid;

5. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray
thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

5. And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the
work, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD: and let them
give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the LORD, to
repair the breaches of the house,

5. And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house
that is to be builded for the LORD must be exceeding magnifical, of
fame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore now make
preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death.

5. He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son
of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at
Ramothgilead: and the Syrians smote Joram.

5. Is not thy wickedness great? and
thine iniquities infinite?

5. They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee,
and were not confounded.

5. Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth
keep his soul shall be far from them.

5. For it is a day of trouble, and of treading down, and of
perplexity by the Lord GOD of hosts in the valley of vision, breaking
down the walls, and of crying to the mountains.

5. But if ye will not hear these words, I swear by myself, saith the
LORD, that this house shall become a desolation.

5. Those that be near, and those that be far from thee, shall mock
thee, which art infamous and much vexed.

6. When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were
with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his
spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;)

6. The sorrows of hell compassed me about; the
snares of death prevented me;

6. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about
four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramothgilead
to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the LORD
shall deliver it into the hand of the king.

6. Unto carpenters, and builders,
and masons, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house.

6. Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build an
house for the LORD God of Israel.

6. And he returned to be healed in Jezreel because of the wounds
which were given him at Ramah, when he fought with Hazael king of
Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see
Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.

6. For thou hast taken a pledge from thy
brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing.

6. But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of
the people.

6. Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he
will not depart from it.

6. And Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and
Kir uncovered the shield.

6. For thus saith the LORD unto the king’s house of Judah; Thou art
Gilead unto me, and the head of Lebanon: yet surely I will make thee a
wilderness, and cities which are not inhabited.

6. Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in thee to their
power to shed blood.

7. Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye
Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and
vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands, and captains of
hundreds;

7. In my distress I called upon the
LORD, and cried to my God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple,
and my cry did enter into his ears.

7. And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?

7. Howbeit there was no reckoning made with them of the money that
was delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully.

7. And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mind
to build an house unto the name of the LORD my God:

7. And the destruction of Ahaziah was of God by coming to Joram: for
when he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of
Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.

7. Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast
withholden bread from the hungry.

7. All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip,
they shake the head, saying,

7. The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the
lender.

7. And it shall come to pass, that thy choicest valleys shall be
full of chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves in array at
the gate.

7. And I will prepare destroyers against thee, every one with his
weapons: and they shall cut down thy choice cedars, and cast them into
the fire.

7. In thee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst of
thee have they dealt by oppression with the stranger: in thee have
they vexed the fatherless and the widow.

8. That all of you have conspired against me, and there is
none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with the son of
Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or sheweth unto
me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait,
as at this day?

8. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven
moved and shook, because he was wroth.

8. And the king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micaiah the son of Imlah,
by whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he doth not
prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not
the king say so.

8. And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have
found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave
the book to Shaphan, and he read it.

8. But the word
of the LORD came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and
hast made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto my name,
because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.

8. And it came to pass, that, when Jehu was executing judgment upon
the house of Ahab, and found the princes of Judah, and the sons of the
brethren of Ahaziah, that ministered to Ahaziah, he slew them.

8. But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable
man dwelt in it.

8. He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver
him, seeing he delighted in him.

8. He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his
anger shall fail.

8. And he discovered the covering of Judah, and thou didst look in
that day to the armour of the house of the forest.

8. And many nations shall pass by this city, and they shall say
every man to his neighbour, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus unto
this great city?

8. Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned my
sabbaths.

9. Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set
over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to
Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.

9. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

9. Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Hasten
hither Micaiah the son of Imlah.

9. And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king
word again, and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that was
found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of them that
do the work, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD.

9. Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest;
and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about: for his
name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israel
in his days.

9. And he sought Ahaziah: and they caught him, (for he was hid in
Samaria,) and brought him to Jehu: and when they had slain him, they
buried him: Because, said they, he is the son of Jehoshaphat, who
sought the LORD with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah had no
power to keep still the kingdom.

9. Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless
have been broken.

9. But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me
hope when I was upon my mother’s breasts.

9. He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of
his bread to the poor.

9. Ye have seen also the breaches of the city of David, that they
are many: and ye gathered together the waters of the lower pool.

9. Then they shall answer, Because they have
forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God, and worshipped other
gods, and served them.

9. In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee they
eat upon the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness.

10. And he enquired of the LORD for him, and gave him victuals, and
gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.

10. He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under
his feet.

10. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat
each on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the
entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied
before them.

10. And Shaphan the scribe shewed the king, saying, Hilkiah the
priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

10. He shall build an house for my name; and he shall be my son, and
I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom
over Israel for ever.

10. But when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of
Judah.

10. Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth
thee;

10. I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my
mother’s belly.

10. Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife
and reproach shall cease.

10. And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses
have ye broken down to fortify the wall.

10. Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him: but weep sore for
him that goeth away: for he shall return no more, nor see his native
country.

10. In thee have they discovered their fathers’ nakedness: in thee
have they humbled her that was set apart for pollution.

11. Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of
Ahitub, and all his father’s house, the priests that were in Nob: and
they came all of them to the king.

11. And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: and he was seen upon the
wings of the wind.

11. And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron: and he
said, Thus saith the LORD, With these shalt thou push the Syrians,
until thou have consumed them.

11. And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the
book of the law, that he rent his clothes.

11. Now, my son, the LORD be with thee; and prosper thou, and build
the house of the LORD thy God, as he hath said of thee.

11. But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son
of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s sons that were slain,
and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, the
daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, (for she
was the sister of Ahaziah,) hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew
him not.

11. Or darkness, that thou canst not see; and abundance of
waters cover thee.

11. Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to
help.

11. He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the
king shall be his friend.

11. Ye made also a ditch between the two walls for the water of the
old pool: but ye have not looked unto the maker thereof, neither had
respect unto him that fashioned it long ago.

11. For thus saith the LORD touching Shallum the son of Josiah king
of Judah, which reigned instead of Josiah his father, which went forth
out of this place; He shall not return thither any more:

11. And one hath committed abomination with his neighbour’s wife;
and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter in law; and another in
thee hath humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.

12. And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered,
Here I am, my lord.

12. And he made darkness pavilions round about him, dark waters, and
thick clouds of the skies.

12. And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the
king’s hand.

12. And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of
Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and
Asahiah a servant of the king’s, saying,

12. Only the LORD give thee wisdom and understanding, and give thee
charge concerning Israel, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORD
thy God.

12. And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: and
Athaliah reigned over the land.

12. Is not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the
stars, how high they are!

12. Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset
me round.

12. The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the
words of the transgressor.

12. And in that day did the Lord GOD of hosts call to weeping, and
to mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth:

12. But he
shall die in the place whither they have led him captive, and shall
see this land no more.

12. In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast taken
usury and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbours by
extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord GOD.

13. And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou
and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword,
and hast enquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to
lie in wait, as at this day?

13. Through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled.

13. And the messenger that was gone to call Micaiah spake unto him,
saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good unto the
king with one mouth: let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of
one of them, and speak that which is good.

13. Go ye, enquire of the
LORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the
words of this book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD
that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkened
unto the words of this book, to do according unto all that which is
written concerning us.

13. Then shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfil the
statutes and judgments which the LORD charged Moses with concerning
Israel: be strong, and of good courage; dread not, nor be dismayed.

13. And thou sayest, How doth God know?
can he judge through the dark cloud?

13. They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a
roaring lion.

13. The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be
slain in the streets.

13. And
behold joy and gladness, slaying oxen, and killing sheep, eating
flesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink; for to morrow we shall
die.

13. Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and his
chambers by wrong; that useth his neighbour’s service without wages,
and giveth him not for his work;

13. Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dishonest gain
which thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the midst of
thee.

14. Then Ahimelech answered the king,
and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David,
which is the king’s son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is
honourable in thine house?

14. The LORD thundered from heaven, and the most High uttered his
voice.

14. And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, what the LORD saith unto
me, that will I speak.

14. So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and
Asahiah, went unto Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son
of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt
in Jerusalem in the college;) and they communed with her.

14. Now, behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the
LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand thousand
talents of silver; and of brass and iron without weight; for it is in
abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest add
thereto.

14. Thick clouds are a
covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of
heaven.

14. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint:
my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

14. The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of
the LORD shall fall therein.

14. And it was revealed in mine ears by the LORD of hosts, Surely
this iniquity shall not be purged from you till ye die, saith the Lord
GOD of hosts.

14. That saith, I will build me a
wide house and large chambers, and cutteth him out windows; and it is
cieled with cedar, and painted with vermilion.

14. Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the
days that I shall deal with thee? I the LORD have spoken it, and will
do it.

15. Did I then begin to enquire of God
for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing unto his
servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knew
nothing of all this, less or more.

15. And he sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and
discomfited them.

15. So he came to the king. And the king said unto him, Micaiah,
shall we go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And
he answered him, Go, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into
the hand of the king.

15. And she said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell
the man that sent you to me,

15. Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and
workers of stone and timber, and all manner of cunning men for every
manner of work.

15. Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden?

15. My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth
to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

15. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of
correction shall drive it far from him.

15. Thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, Go, get thee unto this
treasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say,

15. Shalt thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar? did not
thy father eat and drink, and do judgment and justice, and then it was
well with him?

15. And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in
the countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee.

16. And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and
all thy father’s house.

16. And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the
world were discovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the blast of
the breath of his nostrils.

16. And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the
LORD?

16. Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will
bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all
the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read:

16. Of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is
no number. Arise therefore, and be doing, and the LORD be with thee.

16. Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown
with a flood:

16. For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have
inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

16. He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that
giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.

16. What hast thou here? and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewed
thee out a sepulchre here, as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on
high, and that graveth an habitation for himself in a rock?

16. He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then
it was well with him: was not this to know me? saith the LORD.

16. And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight of
the heathen, and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.

17. And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn,
and slay the priests of the LORD: because their hand also is with
David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not shew it to me.
But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall
upon the priests of the LORD.

17. He sent from above, he took me; he drew me out of many waters;

17. And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills,
as sheep that have not a shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no
master: let them return every man to his house in peace.

17. Because
they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that
they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands;
therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and shall not
be quenched.

17. David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon
his son, saying,

17. Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can
the Almighty do for them?

17. I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.

17. Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply
thine heart unto my knowledge.

17. Behold, the LORD will carry thee away with a mighty captivity, and
will surely cover thee.

17. But thine eyes and thine heart are not but for thy covetousness,
and for to shed innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence,
to do it.

17. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

18. And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests.
And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on
that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.

18. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

18. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell
thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil?

18. But to the king of Judah which sent you to enquire of the LORD,
thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, As
touching the words which thou hast heard;

18. Is not the LORD your God with you? and hath he
not given you rest on every side? for he hath given the inhabitants of
the land into mine hand; and the land is subdued before the LORD, and
before his people.

18. Yet he filled their houses with good
things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

18. They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

18. For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they
shall withal be fitted in thy lips.

18. He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a
large country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thy
glory shall be the shame of thy lord’s house.

18. Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of
Josiah king of Judah; They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah my
brother! or, Ah sister! they shall not lament for him, saying, Ah
lord! or, Ah his glory!

18. Son of man,
the house of Israel is to me become dross: all they are brass, and
tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are even
the dross of silver.

19. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the
sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen, and
asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.

19. They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

19. And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD
sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on
his right hand and on his left.

19. Because thine heart
was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the LORD, when thou
heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants
thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast
rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saith
the LORD.

19. Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God;
arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of the LORD God, to bring
the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of God, into
the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.

19. The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them
to scorn.

19. But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee
to help me.

19. That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee
this day, even to thee.

19. And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall
he pull thee down.

19. He shall be buried with the burial of
an ass, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.

19. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye are all become
dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of
Jerusalem.

20. And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named
Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.

20. He brought me forth also into a large place: he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

20. And the LORD said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up
and fall at Ramothgilead? And one said on this manner, and another
said on that manner.

20. Behold therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thou
shalt be gathered into thy grave in peace; and thine eyes shall not
see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought
the king word again.

20. Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them
the fire consumeth.

20. Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the
dog.

20. Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and
knowledge,

20. And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my
servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah:

20. Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in Bashan, and
cry from the passages: for all thy lovers are destroyed.

20. As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin,
into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it;
so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave
you there, and melt you.

21. And Abiathar shewed David that Saul had slain the LORD’s
priests.

21. The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness: according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

21. And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will persuade him.

21. Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good
shall come unto thee.

21. Save me from the lion’s mouth: for thou hast heard me from the
horns of the unicorns.

21. That I might make thee know the certainty of the
words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them
that send unto thee?

21. And I will clothe him with
thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy
government into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.

21. I spake unto thee in thy prosperity; but thou saidst, I will not
hear. This hath been thy manner from thy youth, that thou obeyedst not
my voice.

21. Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the fire of my
wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst therof.

22. And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the
Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned
the death of all the persons of thy father’s house.

22. For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

22. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go
forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
And he said, Thou shalt persuade him, and prevail also: go forth, and
do so.

22. Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his
words in thine heart.

22. I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the
congregation will I praise thee.

22. Rob not the poor, because he is poor:
neither oppress the afflicted in the gate:

22. And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder;
so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none
shall open.

22. The wind shall eat up all thy pastors, and thy lovers shall go
into captivity: surely then shalt thou be ashamed and confounded for
all thy wickedness.

22. As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be
melted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the LORD have
poured out my fury upon you.

23. Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life
seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safeguard.

23. For all his judgments were before me: and as for his statutes, I
did not depart from them.

23. Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil
concerning thee.

23. If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou
shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles.

23. Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob,
glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

23. For the LORD will
plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them.

23. And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be
for a glorious throne to his father’s house.

23. O inhabitant of Lebanon, that makest thy nest in the cedars, how
gracious shalt thou be when pangs come upon thee, the pain as of a
woman in travail!

23. And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24. I was also upright before him, and have kept myself from mine
iniquity.

24. But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah
on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me
to speak unto thee?

24. Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as
the stones of the brooks.

24. For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the
afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried
unto him, he heard.

24. Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man
thou shalt not go:

24. And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father’s
house, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity,
from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.

24. As I live, saith the LORD, though Coniah the
son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, yet
would I pluck thee thence;

24. Son of man,
say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon
in the day of indignation.

25. Therefore the LORD hath recompensed me according to my
righteousness; according to my cleanness in his eye sight.

25. And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in
that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

25. Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have
plenty of silver.

25. My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay
my vows before them that fear him.

25. Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to
thy soul.

25. In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall the nail that is
fastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall; and
the burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the LORD hath spoken
it.

25. And I will give thee into the hand of
them that seek thy life, and into the hand of them whose face thou
fearest, even into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and
into the hand of the Chaldeans.

25. There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like
a roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they have
taken the treasure and precious things; they have made her many widows
in the midst thereof.

26. With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful, and with the
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright.

26. And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back
unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;

26. For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt
lift up thy face unto God.

26. The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD
that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

26. Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are
sureties for debts.

26. And I will cast thee out, and thy mother that bare thee, into
another country, where ye were not born; and there shall ye die.

26. Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy
things: they have put no difference between the holy and profane,
neither have they shewed difference between the unclean and the clean,
and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned among
them.

27. With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself unsavoury.

27. And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed
him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I
come in peace.

27. Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and
thou shalt pay thy vows.

27. All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD:
and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

27. If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed
from under thee?

27. But to the land whereunto they desire to return, thither shall
they not return.

27. Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the
prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain.

28. And the afflicted people thou wilt save: but thine eyes are upon
the haughty, that thou mayest bring them down.

28. And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath
not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you.

28. Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto
thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways.

28. For the kingdom is the LORD’s: and he is the governor among the
nations.

28. Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy
fathers have set.

28. Is this man Coniah a despised broken idol? is he a vessel
wherein is no pleasure? wherefore are they cast out, he and his seed,
and are cast into a land which they know not?

28. And her prophets have daubed them with untempered morter, seeing
vanity, and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord GOD,
when the LORD hath not spoken.

29. For thou art my lamp, O LORD: and the LORD will lighten my
darkness.

29. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

29. When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting
up; and he shall save the humble person.

29. All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they
that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive
his own soul.

29. Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before
kings; he shall not stand before mean men.

29. O earth, earth,
earth, hear the word of the LORD.

29. The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised
robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressed
the stranger wrongfully.

30. For by thee I have run through a troop: by my God have I leaped
over a wall.

30. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the
king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.

30. He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered
by the pureness of thine hands.

30. A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
generation.

30. Thus saith the LORD, Write ye this man childless, a man that
shall not prosper in his days: for no man of his seed shall prosper,
sitting upon the throne of David, and ruling any more in Judah.

30. And I sought for a man among them, that should make up the
hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not
destroy it: but I found none.

31. As for God, his way is perfect; the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all them that trust in him.

31. But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that
had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor
great, save only with the king of Israel.

31. They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a
people that shall be born, that he hath done this.

31. Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them; I have
consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I
recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord GOD.

32. For who is God, save the LORD? and who is a rock, save our God?

32. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they
turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out.

33. God is my strength and power: and he maketh my way perfect.

33. And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived
that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from
pursuing him.

34. He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet: and setteth me upon my high
places.

34. And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the
driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host;
for I am wounded.

35. He teacheth my hands to war; so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

35. And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in
his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran
out of the wound into the midst of the chariot.

36. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
gentleness hath made me great.

36. And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the
going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to
his own country.

37. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me; so that my feet did not
slip.

37. So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried
the king in Samaria.

38. I have pursued mine enemies, and destroyed them; and turned not
again until I had consumed them.

38. And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs
licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the
word of the LORD which he spake.

39. And I have consumed them, and wounded them, that they could not
arise: yea, they are fallen under my feet.

39. Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the
ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

40. For thou hast girded me with strength to battle: them that rose
up against me hast thou subdued under me.

40. So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in
his stead.

41. Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might
destroy them that hate me.

41. And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the
fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.

42. They looked, but there was none to save; even unto the LORD, but
he answered them not.

42. Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to
reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his
mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

43. Then did I beat them as small as the dust of the earth, I did
stamp them as the mire of the street, and did spread them abroad.

43. And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not
aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD:
nevertheless the high places were not taken away; for the people
offered and burnt incense yet in the high places.

44. Thou also hast delivered me from the strivings of my people,
thou hast kept me to be head of the heathen: a people which I knew not
shall serve me.

44. And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.

45. Strangers shall submit themselves unto me: as soon as they hear,
they shall be obedient unto me.

45. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he
shewed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?

46. Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of their
close places.

46. And the remnant of the
sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out
of the land.

47. The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and exalted be the God
of the rock of my salvation.

47. There was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king.

48. It is God that avengeth me, and that bringeth down the people
under me.

48. Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but
they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber.

49. And that bringeth me forth from mine enemies: thou also hast
lifted me up on high above them that rose up against me: thou hast
delivered me from the violent man.

49. Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my
servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not.

50. Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and I will sing praises unto thy name.

50. And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned
in his stead.

51. He is the tower of salvation for his king: and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, unto David, and to his seed for evermore.

51. Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria
the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two
years over Israel.

52. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin:

53. For he served
Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of
Israel, according to all that his father had done.




The Second Book of the Kings