1. And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag
on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the south, and
Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire;

1. And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also
to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the
LORD at Jerusalem, to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel.

1. But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose
fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.

1. I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast
not made my foes to rejoice over me.

1. The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man
spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal,

1. Woe to the rebellious children, saith the LORD, that take
counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my
spirit, that they may add sin to sin:

1. The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

1. The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

2. And had
taken the women captives, that were therein: they slew not any, either
great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.

2. For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the
congregation in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second month.

2. Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom
old age was perished?

2. O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.

2. Surely I am more
brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man.

2. That walk to go down into
Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the
strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!

2. Thus
speaketh the LORD God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words that
I have spoken unto thee in a book.

2. Son of man,
prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Howl ye, Woe worth the day!

3. So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned
with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were
taken captives.

3. For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had
not sanctified themselves sufficiently, neither had the people
gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.

3. For want and famine they were solitary;
fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste.

3. O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast
kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.

3. I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.

3. Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust
in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.

3. For, lo, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will bring again
the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the LORD: and I
will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers,
and they shall possess it.

3. For the day is near, even the day of the LORD is near, a cloudy
day; it shall be the time of the heathen.

4. Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their
voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.

4. And the thing pleased the king and all the congregation.

4. Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their
meat.

4. Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the
remembrance of his holiness.

4. Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered
the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who
hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what
is his son’s name, if thou canst tell?

4. For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes.

4. And these are the words that the LORD spake concerning Israel and
concerning Judah.

4. And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and great pain shall be in
Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall take away
her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.

5. And David’s two wives were taken captives, Ahinoam the
Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.

5. So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all
Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the
passover unto the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem: for they had not
done it of a long time in such sort as it was written.

5. They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as
after a thief;)

5. For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life:
weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.

5. Every word of God is
pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him.

5. They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, nor
be an help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.

5. For thus saith the LORD; We have heard a voice of trembling, of
fear, and not of peace.

5. Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the mingled people, and
Chub, and the men of the land that is in league, shall fall with them
by the sword.

6. And David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stoning
him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his
sons and for his daughters: but David encouraged himself in the LORD
his God.

6. So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes
throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of
the king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again unto the LORD God
of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will return to the remnant of
you, that are escaped out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.

6. To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves
of the earth, and in the rocks.

6. And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.

6. Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be
found a liar.

6. The burden of the beasts of the south: into the land of trouble
and anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper and
fiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the shoulders
of young asses, and their treasures upon the bunches of camels, to a
people that shall not profit them.

6. Ask ye now, and see whether a man doth travail with child?
wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a woman
in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?

6. Thus saith the LORD; They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and
the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Syene shall
they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord GOD.

7. And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech’s son, I pray
thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the
ephod to David.

7. And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, which
trespassed against the LORD God of their fathers, who therefore gave
them up to desolation, as ye see.

7. Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were
gathered together.

7. LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong:
thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.

7. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I
die:

7. For the Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose:
therefore have I cried concerning this, Their strength is to sit
still.

7. Alas! for
that day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time of
Jacob’s trouble, but he shall be saved out of it.

7. And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are
desolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are
wasted.

8. And David enquired at the LORD, saying, Shall I pursue after this
troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue: for thou
shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.

8. Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were, but yield
yourselves unto the LORD, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hath
sanctified for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fierceness
of his wrath may turn away from you.

8. They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were
viler than the earth.

8. I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication.

8. Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty
nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:

8. Now go, write it before them in a table, and note it in a book,
that it may be for the time to come for ever and ever:

8. For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD of hosts,
that I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thy
bonds, and strangers shall no more serve themselves of him:

8. And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have set a fire in
Egypt, and when all her helpers shall be destroyed.

9. So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and
came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.

9. For if ye turn again unto the LORD, your brethren and your
children shall find compassion before them that lead them captive, so
that they shall come again into this land: for the LORD your God is
gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye
return unto him.

9. And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword.

9. What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit?
Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?

9. Lest I be full,
and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal,
and take the name of my God in vain.

9. That this
is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear
the law of the LORD:

9. But
they shall serve the LORD their God, and David their king, whom I will
raise up unto them.

9. In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships to make
the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shall come upon them,
as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh.

10. But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred
abode behind, which were so faint that they could not go over the
brook Besor.

10. So the posts passed from city to city through the country of
Ephraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to
scorn, and mocked them.

10. They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in
my face.

10. Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper.

10. Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and
thou be found guilty.

10. Which say to the seers, See not; and to the
prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth
things, prophesy deceits:

10. Therefore fear thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the LORD;
neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar,
and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return,
and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid.

10. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also make the multitude of Egypt
to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon.

11. And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to
David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink
water;

11. Nevertheless divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled
themselves, and came to Jerusalem.

11. Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also
let loose the bridle before me.

11. Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put
off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;

11. There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not
bless their mother.

11. Get you out of the way, turn aside out
of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.

11. For I am with thee, saith the LORD, to save thee: though I make
a full end of all nations whither I have scattered thee, yet I will
not make a full end of thee: but I will correct thee in measure, and
will not leave thee altogether unpunished.

11. He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall
be brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their swords
against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.

12. And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two
clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to
him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and
three nights.

12. Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heart to do
the commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of the
LORD.

12. Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and
they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.

12. To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be
silent.

O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.

12. There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet
is not washed from their filthiness.

12. Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise
this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon:

12. For thus saith the LORD, Thy bruise is incurable, and thy wound
is grievous.

12. And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the hand
of the wicked: and I will make the land waste, and all that is
therein, by the hand of strangers: I the LORD have spoken it.

13. And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art
thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite;
and my master left me, because three days agone I fell sick.

13. And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast
of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great congregation.

13. They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no
helper.

13. There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their
eyelids are lifted up.

13. Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to
fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at
an instant.

13. There is none to plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up:
thou hast no healing medicines.

13. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also destroy the idols, and I
will cause their images to cease out of Noph; and there shall be no
more a prince of the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land
of Egypt.

14. We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon
the coast which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and
we burned Ziklag with fire.

14. And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem,
and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the
brook Kidron.

14. They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the
desolation they rolled themselves upon me.

14. There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw
teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy
from among men.

14. And he shall break it as the breaking of the potters’ vessel
that is broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall not
be found in the bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth,
or to take water withal out of the pit.

14. All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for I
have wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of
a cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity; because thy sins
were increased.

14. And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, and
will execute judgments in No.

15. And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company?
And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor
deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to
this company.

15. Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the
second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and
sanctified themselves, and brought in the burnt offerings into the
house of the LORD.

15. Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and
my welfare passeth away as a cloud.

15. The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are
three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is
enough:

15. For thus saith the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel; In
returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence
shall be your strength: and ye would not.

15. Why criest thou for thine affliction? thy sorrow is incurable
for the multitude of thine iniquity: because thy sins were increased,
I have done these things unto thee.

15. And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I
will cut off the multitude of No.

16. And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread
abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because
of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the
Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.

16. And they stood in their place after their manner, according to
the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood,
which they received of the hand of the Levites.

16. And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction
have taken hold upon me.

16. The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not
filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough.

16. But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall
ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that
pursue you be swift.

16. Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and all
thine adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; and
they that spoil thee shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon thee
will I give for a prey.

16. And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great pain, and No
shall be rent asunder, and Noph shall have distresses daily.

17. And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of
the next day: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred
young men, which rode upon camels, and fled.

17. For there were many in the congregation that were not
sanctified: therefore the Levites had the charge of the killing of the
passovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them unto the
LORD.

17. My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews
take no rest.

17. The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his
mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young
eagles shall eat it.

17. One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke of
five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of a
mountain, and as an ensign on an hill.

17. For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy
wounds, saith the LORD; because they called thee an Outcast, saying,
This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.

17. The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword:
and these cities shall go into captivity.

18. And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away:
and David rescued his two wives.

18. For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, and
Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did
they eat the passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiah
prayed for them, saying, The good LORD pardon every one

18. By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it
bindeth me about as the collar of my coat.

18. There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four
which I know not:

18. And therefore will the LORD wait, that he may be gracious unto
you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon
you: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait
for him.

18. Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will bring again the captivity of
Jacob’s tents, and have mercy on his dwellingplaces; and the city
shall be builded upon her own heap, and the palace shall remain after
the manner thereof.

18. At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, when I shall
break there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shall
cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters
shall go into captivity.

19. And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great,
neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had
taken to them: David recovered all.

19. That
prepareth his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though
he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.

19. He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and
ashes.

19. The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a
serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and
the way of a man with a maid.

19. For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: thou shalt weep
no more: he will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry;
when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.

19. And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them
that make merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few;
I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.

19. Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know that
I am the LORD.

20. And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drave
before those other cattle, and said, This is David’s spoil.

20. And the LORD hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.

20. I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou
regardest me not.

20. Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth
her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.

20. And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity, and the
water of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be removed into a
corner any more, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers:

20. Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their
congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all
that oppress them.

20. And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, in
the seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,
saying,

21. And David came to the two hundred men, which were so faint that
they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the
brook Besor: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people
that were with him: and when David came near to the people, he saluted
them.

21. And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept
the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness: and the
Levites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loud
instruments unto the LORD.

21. Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest
thyself against me.

21. For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it
cannot bear:

21. And
thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way,
walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the
left.

21. And their nobles shall be of themselves, and their governor
shall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to draw
near, and he shall approach unto me: for who is this that engaged his
heart to approach unto me? saith the LORD.

21. Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of
Egypt; and, lo, it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller
to bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword.

22. Then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial, of those
that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will
not give them ought of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every
man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and
depart.

22. And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that taught
the good knowledge of the LORD: and they did eat throughout the feast
seven days, offering peace offerings, and making confession to the
LORD God of their fathers.

22. Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it,
and dissolvest my substance.

22. For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he
is filled with meat;

22. Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of
silver, and the ornament of thy molten images of gold: thou shalt cast
them away as a menstruous cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get thee
hence.

22. And ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.

22. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against Pharaoh
king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which was
broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.

23. Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that
which the LORD hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the
company that came against us into our hand.

23. And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days:
and they kept other seven days with gladness.

23. For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house
appointed for all living.

23. For an odious woman when she is married;
and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.

23. Then shall he give the rain of thy seed, that thou shalt sow the
ground withal; and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall be
fat and plenteous: in that day shall thy cattle feed in large
pastures.

23. Behold, the whirlwind of the LORD goeth forth with fury, a
continuing whirlwind: it shall fall with pain upon the head of the
wicked.

23. And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will
disperse them through the countries.

24. For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is
that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by
the stuff: they shall part alike.

24. For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the congregation a
thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to
the congregation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and a
great number of priests sanctified themselves.

24. Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though
they cry in his destruction.

24. There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they
are exceeding wise:

24. The oxen likewise and the young asses that ear the ground shall
eat clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shovel and with
the fan.

24. The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return, until he hath
done it, and until he have performed the intents of his heart: in the
latter days ye shall consider it.

24. And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put
my sword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh’s arms, and he shall
groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.

25. And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute
and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.

25. And all the congregation of Judah, with the priests and the
Levites, and all the congregation that came out of Israel, and the
strangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt in
Judah, rejoiced.

25. Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul
grieved for the poor?

25. The ants are a people not strong, yet they
prepare their meat in the summer;

25. And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every high
hill, rivers and streams of waters in the day of the great slaughter,
when the towers fall.

25. But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the
arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am the
LORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon,
and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.

26. And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the
elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold a present for you
of the spoil of the enemies of the LORD;

26. So there was great joy in Jerusalem: for since the time of
Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like in
Jerusalem.

26. When I looked for good, then evil came
unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness.

26. The conies are but a feeble
folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;

26. Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun,
and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven
days, in the day that the LORD bindeth up the breach of his people,
and healeth the stroke of their wound.

26. And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse
them among the countries; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

27. To them which were in
Bethel, and to them which were in south Ramoth, and to them which were
in Jattir,

27. Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and
their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy dwelling
place, even unto heaven.

27. My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction
prevented me.

27. The locusts have
no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;

27. Behold, the name of the LORD cometh from far, burning with his
anger, and the burden thereof is heavy: his lips are full of
indignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire:

28. And to them which were in Aroer, and to them which
were in Siphmoth, and to them which were in Eshtemoa,

28. I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the
congregation.

28. The spider
taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings’ palaces.

28. And his breath,
as an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to
sift the nations with the sieve of vanity: and there shall be a bridle
in the jaws of the people, causing them to err.

29. And to
them which were in Rachal, and to them which were in the cities of the
Jerahmeelites, and to them which were in the cities of the Kenites,

29. I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls.

29. There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in
going:

29. Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is
kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe to come
into the mountain of the LORD, to the mighty One of Israel.

30. And to them which were in Hormah, and to them which were in
Chorashan, and to them which were in Athach,

30. My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.

30. A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not
away for any;

30. And the LORD shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, and
shall shew the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation of his
anger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, and
tempest, and hailstones.

31. And to them which
were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men
were wont to haunt.

31. My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice
of them that weep.

31. A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against
whom there is no rising up.

31. For through the voice of the LORD shall the Assyrian be beaten
down, which smote with a rod.

32. If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou
hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.

32. And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass, which
the LORD shall lay upon him, it shall be with tabrets and harps: and
in battles of shaking will he fight with it.

33. Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the
wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath
bringeth forth strife.

33. For Tophet is ordained of old; yea, for the king it is prepared;
he hath made it deep and large: the pile thereof is fire and much
wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle
it.