1. After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib
king of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against the
fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself.

1. So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous
in his own eyes.

1. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is
covered.

1. Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall
rule in judgment.

1. The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of
Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of
Nebuchadrezzar.

1. And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in
the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,
saying,

2. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was
purposed to fight against Jerusalem,

2. Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the
Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled,
because he justified himself rather than God.

2. Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and
in whose spirit there is no guile.

2. And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert
from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of
a great rock in a weary land.

2. For then the king of Babylon’s army besieged Jerusalem: and
Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the prison, which was
in the king of Judah’s house.

2. Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of
Egypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the nations,
and thou art as a whale in the seas: and thou camest forth with thy
rivers, and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and fouledst their
rivers.

3. He took counsel with his
princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which
were without the city: and they did help him.

3. Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because
they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.

3. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all
the day long.

3. And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears of
them that hear shall hearken.

3. For Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, Wherefore
dost thou prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will give
this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;

3. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will therefore spread out my net over
thee with a company of many people; and they shall bring thee up in my
net.

4. So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the
fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land,
saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?

4. Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder
than he.

4. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is
turned into the drought of summer. Selah.

4. The heart also of the rash shall understand knowledge, and the
tongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly.

4. And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of
the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king
of Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes
shall behold his eyes;

4. Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth upon
the open field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain
upon thee, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee.

5. Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was
broken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and
repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in
abundance.

5. When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these
three men, then his wrath was kindled.

5. I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid.
I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou
forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.

5. The vile person shall be no more called liberal, nor the churl
said to be bountiful.

5. And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babylon, and
there shall he be until I visit him, saith the LORD: though ye fight
with the Chaldeans, ye shall not prosper.

5. And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys
with thy height.

6. And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them
together to him in the street of the gate of the city, and spake
comfortably to them, saying,

6. And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am
young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew
you mine opinion.

6. For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time
when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they
shall not come nigh unto him.

6. For the vile person will speak villany, and his heart will work
iniquity, to practise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the LORD,
to make empty the soul of the hungry, and he will cause the drink of
the thirsty to fail.

6. And Jeremiah said, The word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

6. I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest,
even to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of thee.

7. Be strong and courageous, be not
afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude
that is with him: for there be more with us than with him:

7. I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach
wisdom.

7. Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble;
thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.

7. The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth wicked
devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when the needy
speaketh right.

7. Behold, Hanameel the son of Shallum thine uncle shall come unto
thee saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth: for the right of
redemption is thine to buy it.

7. And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and make
the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the
moon shall not give her light.

8. With
him is an arm of flesh; but with us is the LORD our God to help us,
and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon the
words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

8. But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding.

8. I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt
go: I will guide thee with mine eye.

8. But the liberal deviseth liberal things; and by liberal things
shall he stand.

8. So Hanameel mine uncle’s son came to me in the court of the
prison according to the word of the LORD, and said unto me, Buy my
field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the country of
Benjamin: for the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption is
thine; buy it for thyself.

Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.

8. All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and
set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord GOD.

9. After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants to
Jerusalem, (but he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all his
power with him,) unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that
were at Jerusalem, saying,

9. Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand
judgment.

9. Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no
understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest
they come near unto thee.

9. Rise up, ye women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye careless
daughters; give ear unto my speech.

9. And I bought the field of Hanameel my uncle’s son, that was in
Anathoth, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver.

9. I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bring thy
destruction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast not
known.

10. Thus saith Sennacherib king of
Assyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abide in the siege in Jerusalem?

10. Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.

10. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the
LORD, mercy shall compass him about.

10. Many days and years shall ye be troubled, ye careless women: for
the vintage shall fail, the gathering shall not come.

10. And I subscribed the evidence, and sealed it, and took
witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.

10. Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kings
shall be horribly afraid for thee, when I shall brandish my sword
before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his
own life, in the day of thy fall.

11. Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die by
famine and by thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliver us out of
the hand of the king of Assyria?

11. Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons,
whilst ye searched out what to say.

11. Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for
joy, all ye that are upright in heart.

11. Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye careless
ones: strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon your
loins.

11. So I took the evidence of the purchase, both that which was
sealed according to the law and custom, and that which was open:

11. For thus saith the Lord GOD; The sword of the king of Babylon
shall come upon thee.

12. Hath not the same Hezekiah
taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and
Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and burn incense
upon it?

12. Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you
that convinced Job, or that answered his words:

12. They shall lament for the teats, for the pleasant fields, for
the fruitful vine.

12. And I gave the evidence of the purchase unto Baruch the son of Neriah,
the son of Maaseiah, in the sight of Hanameel mine uncle’s son, and in
the presence of the witnesses that subscribed the book of the
purchase, before all the Jews that sat in the court of the prison.

12. By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to fall,
the terrible of the nations, all of them: and they shall spoil the
pomp of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall be destroyed.

13. Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all
the people of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those lands
any ways able to deliver their lands out of mine hand?

13. Lest ye should
say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man.

13. Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea,
upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city:

13. And I charged Baruch before them, saying,

13. I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from beside the great
waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor the
hoofs of beasts trouble them.

14. Who was
there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly
destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your
God should be able to deliver you out of mine hand?

14. Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I
answer him with your speeches.

14. Because the
palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left;
the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses,
a pasture of flocks;

14. Thus saith the
LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Take these evidences, this evidence
of the purchase, both which is sealed, and this evidence which is
open; and put them in an earthen vessel, that they may continue many
days.

14. Then will I make their waters deep, and cause their rivers to
run like oil, saith the Lord GOD.

15. Now
therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on this
manner, neither yet believe him: for no god of any nation or kingdom
was able to deliver his people out of mine hand, and out of the hand
of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of mine
hand?

15. They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking.

15. Until the spirit be poured upon us from on
high, and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field
be counted for a forest.

15. For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Houses and
fields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land.

15. When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country
shall be destitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall smite all
them that dwell therein, then shall they know that I am the LORD.

16. And his servants spake yet more against the LORD God, and
against his servant Hezekiah.

16. When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and
answered no more;)

16. Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness
remain in the fruitful field.

16. Now when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase unto
Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed unto the LORD, saying,

16. This is the lamentation wherewith they shall lament her: the
daughters of the nations shall lament her: they shall lament for her,
even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, saith the Lord GOD.

17. He wrote also letters to rail on the LORD God of Israel, and to
speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other lands
have not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the God
of Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand.

17. I said, I will answer also my part, I also
will shew mine opinion.

17. And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of
righteousness quietness and assurance for ever.

17. Ah
Lord GOD! behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great
power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee:

17. It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth day
of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

18. Then they cried with a loud voice in the Jews’ speech unto the
people of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and to
trouble them; that they might take the city.

18. For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.

18. And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure
dwellings, and in quiet resting places;

18. Thou shewest lovingkindness unto thousands, and recompensest the
iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them:
the Great, the Mighty God, the LORD of hosts, is his name,

18. Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even
her, and the daughters of the famous nations, unto the nether parts of
the earth, with them that go down into the pit.

19. And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods
of the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man.

19. Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to
burst like new bottles.

19. When it shall hail,
coming down on the forest; and the city shall be low in a low place.

19. Great
in counsel, and mighty in work: for thine eyes are open upon all the
ways of the sons of men: to give every one according to his ways, and
according to the fruit of his doings:

19. Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou laid with
the uncircumcised.

20. And for this cause Hezekiah the king, and the prophet Isaiah the
son of Amoz, prayed and cried to heaven.

20. I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and
answer.

20. Blessed are ye that sow beside all waters, that send forth
thither the feet of the ox and the ass.

20. Which hast set signs and
wonders in the land of Egypt, even unto this day, and in Israel, and
among other men; and hast made thee a name, as at this day;

20. They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by the
sword: she is delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitudes.

21. And the LORD sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of
valour, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of
Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when
he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his own
bowels slew him there with the sword.

21. Let me not, I pray you, accept any man’s person, neither let me
give flattering titles unto man.

21. And
hast brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with
signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with a stretched
out arm, and with great terror;

21. The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst
of hell with them that help him: they are gone down, they lie
uncircumcised, slain by the sword.

22. Thus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of
all other, and guided them on every side.

22. For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker
would soon take me away.

22. And hast given them this land,
which thou didst swear to their fathers to give them, a land flowing
with milk and honey;

22. Asshur is there and all her company: his graves are about him:
all of them slain, fallen by the sword:

23. And many brought gifts unto the LORD to Jerusalem, and presents
to Hezekiah king of Judah: so that he was magnified in the sight of
all nations from thenceforth.

23. And they came in, and possessed it; but
they obeyed not thy voice, neither walked in thy law; they have done
nothing of all that thou commandedst them to do: therefore thou hast
caused all this evil to come upon them:

23. Whose graves are set in
the sides of the pit, and her company is round about her grave: all of
them slain, fallen by the sword, which caused terror in the land of
the living.

24. In those days Hezekiah was sick to the death, and prayed unto
the LORD: and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign.

24. Behold the mounts, they
are come unto the city to take it; and the city is given into the hand
of the Chaldeans, that fight against it, because of the sword, and of
the famine, and of the pestilence: and what thou hast spoken is come
to pass; and, behold, thou seest it.

24. There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave, all
of them slain, fallen by the sword, which are gone down uncircumcised
into the nether parts of the earth, which caused their terror in the
land of the living; yet have they borne their shame with them that go
down to the pit.

25. But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done
unto him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath upon
him, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.

25. And thou hast said unto me, O Lord GOD, Buy thee the field for
money, and take witnesses; for the city is given into the hand of the
Chaldeans.

25. They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her
multitude: her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised,
slain by the sword: though their terror was caused in the land of the
living, yet have they borne their shame with them that go down to the
pit: he is put in the midst of them that be slain.

26. Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his
heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of
the LORD came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

26. Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

26. There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude: her graves are
round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though
they caused their terror in the land of the living.

27. And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour: and he made
himself treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones,
and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of pleasant
jewels;

27. Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh: is there any thing too
hard for me?

27. And they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the
uncircumcised, which are gone down to hell with their weapons of war:
and they have laid their swords under their heads, but their
iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror of
the mighty in the land of the living.

28. Storehouses also for the increase of corn, and wine, and
oil; and stalls for all manner of beasts, and cotes for flocks.

28. Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give
this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it:

28. Yea, thou shalt be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and
shalt lie with them that are slain with the sword.

29. Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks and
herds in abundance: for God had given him substance very much.

29. And the
Chaldeans, that fight against this city, shall come and set fire on
this city, and burn it with the houses, upon whose roofs they have
offered incense unto Baal, and poured out drink offerings unto other
gods, to provoke me to anger.

29. There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, which with their
might are laid by them that were slain by the sword: they shall lie
with the uncircumcised, and with them that go down to the pit.

30. This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon,
and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David.
And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.

30. For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have only
done evil before me from their youth: for the children of Israel have
only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, saith the
LORD.

30. There be the princes of the north, all of them, and all the
Zidonians, which are gone down with the slain; with their terror they
are ashamed of their might; and they lie uncircumcised with them that
be slain by the sword, and bear their shame with them that go down to
the pit.

31. Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of
Babylon, who sent unto him to enquire of the wonder that was done in
the land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in
his heart.

31. For this city hath been to me as a provocation of mine anger and
of my fury from the day that they built it even unto this day; that I
should remove it from before my face,

31. Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all his
multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword, saith the
Lord GOD.

32. Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold,
they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz,
and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

32. Because of all the evil of
the children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they have
done to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, their princes, their
priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants
of Jerusalem.

32. For I have caused my terror in the land of the living: and he
shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are
slain with the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the
Lord GOD.

33. And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
chiefest of the sepulchres of the sons of David: and all Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honour at his death. And Manasseh his
son reigned in his stead.

33. And they have turned unto me the back, and not the face: though
I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have not
hearkened to receive instruction.

34. But they set their abominations in the house, which is called by
my name, to defile it.

35. And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley
of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass
through the fire unto Molech; which I commanded them not, neither came
it into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah
to sin.

36. And now therefore thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel,
concerning this city, whereof ye say, It shall be delivered into the
hand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by
the pestilence;

37. Behold, I will gather them out of all countries,
whither I have driven them in mine anger, and in my fury, and in great
wrath; and I will bring them again unto this place, and I will cause
them to dwell safely:

38. And they shall be my people, and I will be
their God:

39. And I will give them one heart, and one way, that
they may fear me for ever, for the good of them, and of their children
after them:

40. And I will make an everlasting covenant with them,
that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; but I will put
my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me.

41. Yea, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant
them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole
soul.

42. For thus saith the LORD; Like as I have brought all this great
evil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that I
have promised them.

43. And fields shall be bought in this land, whereof ye say, It is
desolate without man or beast; it is given into the hand of the
Chaldeans.

44. Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe evidences, and
seal them, and take witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in the
places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities
of the mountains, and in the cities of the valley, and in the cities
of the south: for I will cause their captivity to return, saith the
LORD.