1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem:

1. Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all
my words.

1. Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the
upright.

1. Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and dealest
treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thou
shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; and when thou shalt make
an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.

1. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the second time,
while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying,

1. Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

2. But did that which was
evil in the sight of the LORD, like unto the abominations of the
heathen, whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

2. Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my
mouth.

2. Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an
instrument of ten strings.

2. O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou
their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.

2. Thus
saith the LORD the maker thereof, the LORD that formed it, to
establish it; the LORD is his name;

2. Son of man,
speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring
the sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man of their
coasts, and set him for their watchman:

3. For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had
broken down, and he reared up altars for Baalim, and made groves, and
worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.

3. My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips
shall utter knowledge clearly.

3. Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.

3. At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of
thyself the nations were scattered.

3. Call unto me, and I will
answer thee, and shew thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest
not.

3. If when he seeth the
sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;

4. Also he built altars in the house of the LORD, whereof the LORD
had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.

4. The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty
hath given me life.

4. For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in
truth.

4. And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the
caterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon
them.

4. For thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses
of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which
are thrown down by the mounts, and by the sword;

4. Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not
warning; if the sword come, and take him away, his blood shall be upon
his own head.

5. And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts
of the house of the LORD.

5. If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand
up.

5. He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the
goodness of the LORD.

5. The LORD is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion
with judgment and righteousness.

5. They come to
fight with the Chaldeans, but it is to fill them with the dead bodies
of men, whom I have slain in mine anger and in my fury, and for all
whose wickedness I have hid my face from this city.

5. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his
blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his
soul.

6. And he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley
of the son of Hinnom: also he observed times, and used enchantments,
and used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit, and with
wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him
to anger.

6. Behold, I am according to thy wish in God’s stead: I also am
formed out of the clay.

6. By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host
of them by the breath of his mouth.

6. And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, and
strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure.

6. Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them,
and will reveal unto them the abundance of peace and truth.

6. But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet,
and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take any person
from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will
I require at the watchman’s hand.

7. And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the
house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son,
In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the
tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever:

7. Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my
hand be heavy upon thee.

7. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth
up the depth in storehouses.

7. Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of
peace shall weep bitterly.

7. And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of
Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first.

7. So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house
of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warn
them from me.

8. Neither will I any
more remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have
appointed for your fathers; so that they will take heed to do all that
I have commanded them, according to the whole law and the statutes and
the ordinances by the hand of Moses.

8. Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the
voice of thy words, saying,

8. Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the
world stand in awe of him.

8. The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken
the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.

8. And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby they
have sinned against me; and I will pardon all their iniquities,
whereby they have sinned, and whereby they have transgressed against
me.

8. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die;
if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked
man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine
hand.

9. So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err,
and to do worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed before
the children of Israel.

9. I am clean without transgression, I
am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me.

9. For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.

9. The earth mourneth and languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewn
down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off
their fruits.

9. And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and an honour
before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good
that I do unto them: and they shall fear and tremble for all the
goodness and for all the prosperity that I procure unto it.

9. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it;
if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou
hast delivered thy soul.

10. And the LORD spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but they
would not hearken.

10. Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his
enemy,

10. The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he
maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

10. Now will I rise, saith the LORD; now will I be exalted; now will
I lift up myself.

10. Thus saith the LORD; Again there shall be heard in this place,
which ye say shall be desolate without man and without beast, even in
the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are
desolate, without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast,

10. Therefore, O thou son of man, speak unto the house of Israel;
Thus ye speak, saying, If our transgressions and our sins be upon us,
and we pine away in them, how should we then live?

11. Wherefore the LORD brought upon them the captains of the host of
the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and bound
him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon.

11. He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my
paths.

11. The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his
heart to all generations.

11. Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your
breath, as fire, shall devour you.

11. The voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voice of them that shall
say, Praise the LORD of hosts: for the LORD is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever: and of them that shall bring the sacrifice of
praise into the house of the LORD. For I will cause to return the
captivity of the land, as at the first, saith the LORD.

11. Say unto
them, As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the death
of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn
ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of
Israel?

12. And when he was in affliction, he besought the LORD his God, and
humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers,

12. Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God
is greater than man.

12. Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom
he hath chosen for his own inheritance.

12. And the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cut
up shall they be burned in the fire.

12. Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Again in this place, which is
desolate without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof,
shall be an habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.

12. Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children of
thy people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him
in the day of his transgression: as for the wickedness of the wicked,
he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from his
wickedness; neither shall the righteous be able to live for his
righteousness in the day that he sinneth.

13. And
prayed unto him: and he was intreated of him, and heard his
supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom.
Then Manasseh knew that the LORD he was God.

13. Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of
any of his matters.

13. The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.

13. Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are
near, acknowledge my might.

13. In the cities of the mountains, in the cities of the vale, and
in the cities of the south, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the
places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks
pass again under the hands of him that telleth them, saith the LORD.

13. When I shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely live; if
he trust to his own righteousness, and commit iniquity, all his
righteousnesses shall not be remembered; but for his iniquity that he
hath committed, he shall die for it.

14. Now after this he built a wall without the city of David, on the
west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entering in at the fish
gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very great height,
and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah.

14. For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not.

14. From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the
inhabitants of the earth.

14. The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised the
hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who
among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?

14. Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will perform that
good thing which I have promised unto the house of Israel and to the
house of Judah.

14. Again, when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; if he
turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right;

15. And he took away the strange gods, and the idol out of the house
of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the
house of the LORD, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.

15. In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth
upon men, in slumberings upon the bed;

15. He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their
works.

15. He that walketh
righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of
oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that
stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from
seeing evil;

15. In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch of
righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute judgment and
righteousness in the land.

15. If the
wicked restore the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in the
statutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely live,
he shall not die.

16. And he repaired the altar of the LORD, and sacrificed thereon
peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the
LORD God of Israel.

16. Then he openeth the ears
of men, and sealeth their instruction,

16. There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man
is not delivered by much strength.

16. He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall
be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall
be sure.

16. In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell
safely: and this is the name wherewith she shall be called, The LORD
our righteousness.

16. None of his sins that he hath committed shall be mentioned unto
him: he hath done that which is lawful and right; he shall surely
live.

17. Nevertheless the people did sacrifice still in the high places,
yet unto the LORD their God only.

17. That he may withdraw man
from his purpose, and hide pride from man.

17. An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver
any by his great strength.

17. Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold
the land that is very far off.

17. For thus saith the LORD; David shall never want a man to sit
upon the throne of the house of Israel;

17. Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not
equal: but as for them, their way is not equal.

18. Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his
God, and the words of the seers that spake to him in the name of the
LORD God of Israel, behold, they are written in the book of the kings
of Israel.

18. He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from
perishing by the sword.

18. Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon
them that hope in his mercy;

18. Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? where is
the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?

18. Neither shall the
priests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, and
to kindle meat offerings, and to do sacrifice continually.

18. When the righteous turneth from his righteousness, and
committeth iniquity, he shall even die thereby.

19. His prayer also, and how God was intreated of him, and all his
sins, and his trespass, and the places wherein he built high places,
and set up groves and graven images, before he was humbled: behold,
they are written among the sayings of the seers.

19. He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude
of his bones with strong pain:

19. To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in
famine.

19. Thou shalt
not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst
perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand.

19. And the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, saying,

19. But if the wicked turn from his wickedness, and do that which is
lawful and right, he shall live thereby.

20. So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his
own house: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

20. So that his life abhorreth bread,
and his soul dainty meat.

20. Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.

20. Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall
see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken
down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither
shall any of the cords thereof be broken.

20. Thus
saith the LORD; If ye can break my covenant of the day, and my
covenant of the night, and that there should not be day and night in
their season;

20. Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal. O ye house of
Israel, I will judge you every one after his ways.

21. Amon was two and twenty years old when he began to reign, and
reigned two years in Jerusalem.

21. His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his
bones that were not seen stick out.

21. For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in
his holy name.

21. But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a place of broad
rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither
shall gallant ship pass thereby.

21. Then may also my covenant be broken with David my
servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and
with the Levites the priests, my ministers.

21. And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the
tenth month, in the fifth day of the month, that one that had escaped
out of Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The city is smitten.

22. But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as did
Manasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed unto all the carved images
which Manasseh his father had made, and served them;

22. Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the
destroyers.

22. Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.

22. For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is
our king; he will save us.

22. As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of
the sea measured: so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, and
the Levites that minister unto me.

22. Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in the evening, afore he
that was escaped came; and had opened my mouth, until he came to me in
the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.

23. And humbled
not himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled
himself; but Amon trespassed more and more.

23. If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a
thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness:

23. Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their
mast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a great
spoil divided; the lame take the prey.

23. Moreover the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,

23. Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24. And his servants conspired against him, and slew him in his own
house.

24. Then he is gracious
unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have
found a ransom.

24. And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that
dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.

24. Considerest thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The two
families which the LORD hath chosen, he hath even cast them off? thus
they have despised my people, that they should be no more a nation
before them.

24. Son of
man, they that inhabit those wastes of the land of Israel speak,
saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited the land: but we are many;
the land is given us for inheritance.

25. But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired
against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king
in his stead.

25. His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s: he shall return to
the days of his youth:

25. Thus saith the LORD; If my covenant be not with day and night,
and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth;

25. Wherefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Ye eat with
the blood, and lift up your eyes toward your idols, and shed blood:
and shall ye possess the land?

26. He shall pray unto God, and he will be
favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will
render unto man his righteousness.

26. Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob and David my servant, so that
I will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and have
mercy on them.

26. Ye stand upon your sword, ye
work abomination, and ye defile every one his neighbour’s wife: and
shall ye possess the land?

27. He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and
perverted that which was right, and it profited me not;

27. Say thou thus unto them, Thus saith
the Lord GOD; As I live, surely they that are in the wastes shall fall
by the sword, and him that is in the open field will I give to the
beasts to be devoured, and they that be in the forts and in the caves
shall die of the pestilence.

28. He will
deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the
light.

28. For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of her
strength shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate,
that none shall pass through.

29. Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man,

29. Then shall they know that I am the LORD, when I have laid the
land most desolate because of all their abominations which they have
committed.

30. To
bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of
the living.

30. Also, thou son of man, the children of thy people still are
talking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and
speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray
you, and hear what is the word that cometh forth from the LORD.

31. Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will
speak.

31. And they come unto thee as the people cometh, and they sit
before thee as my people, and they hear thy words, but they will not
do them: for with their mouth they shew much love, but their heart
goeth after their covetousness.

32. If thou hast anything to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to
justify thee.

32. And, lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song of one that
hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument: for they
hear thy words, but they do them not.

33. If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee
wisdom.

33. And when this cometh to pass, (lo, it will come,) then shall
they know that a prophet hath been among them.