1. Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and
made him king in his father’s stead in Jerusalem.

1. Elihu also proceeded, and said,

1. The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there
is no fear of God before his eyes.

1. Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, that
Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced cities of
Judah, and took them.

1. And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of
Josiah king of Judah, that this word came unto Jeremiah from the LORD,
saying,

1. Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of Israel, and
say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD:

2. Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.

2. Suffer me a little, and I
will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God’s behalf.

2. For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be
found to be hateful.

2. And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem
unto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of
the upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field.

2. Take thee a roll of a book, and write therein all the
words that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, and against Judah,
and against all the nations, from the day I spake unto thee, from the
days of Josiah, even unto this day.

2. Thus
saith the Lord GOD; Because the enemy hath said against you, Aha, even
the ancient high places are ours in possession:

3. And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem, and condemned
the land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.

3. I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe
righteousness to my Maker.

3. The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off
to be wise, and to do good.

3. Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah’s son, which was over
the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, Asaph’s son, the recorder.

3. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I
purpose to do unto them; that they may return every man from his evil
way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.

3. Therefore
prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they have made you
desolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that ye might be a
possession unto the residue of the heathen, and ye are taken up in the
lips of talkers, and are an infamy of the people:

4. And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah
and Jerusalem, and turned his name to Jehoiakim. And Necho took
Jehoahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.

4. For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in
knowledge is with thee.

4. He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way
that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.

4. And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith
the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein
thou trustest?

4. Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah: and Baruch wrote
from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD, which he had
spoken unto him, upon a roll of a book.

4. Therefore, ye
mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the
Lord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the
valleys, to the desolate wastes, and to the cities that are forsaken,
which became a prey and derision to the residue of the heathen that
are round about;

5. Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was
evil in the sight of the LORD his God.

5. Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in
strength and wisdom.

5. Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness
reacheth unto the clouds.

5. I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words)
I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that
thou rebellest against me?

5. And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I cannot go
into the house of the LORD:

5. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Surely in the
fire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the heathen,
and against all Idumea, which have appointed my land into their
possession with the joy of all their heart, with despiteful minds, to
cast it out for a prey.

6. Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him
in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.

6. He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the
poor.

6. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are
a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast.

6. Lo, thou trustest in the staff of
this broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into his
hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust in
him.

6. Therefore go thou, and read in the
roll, which thou hast written from my mouth, the words of the LORD in
the ears of the people in the LORD’s house upon the fasting day: and
also thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of
their cities.

6. Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel, and say unto
the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys,
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in
my fury, because ye have borne the shame of the heathen:

7. Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of the
LORD to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.

7. He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings
are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they
are exalted.

7. How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the
children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.

7. But if thou say to me, We trust in the LORD our God: is it not
he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and
said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?

7. It may be they will present their supplication before the LORD,
and will return every one from his evil way: for great is the anger
and the fury that the LORD hath pronounced against this people.

7. Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I have lifted up mine hand, Surely
the heathen that are about you, they shall bear their shame.

8. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which
he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in
the book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.

8. And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of
affliction;

8. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house;
and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

8. Now therefore give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king of
Assyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on
thy part to set riders upon them.

8. And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah
the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the LORD
in the LORD’s house.

8. But ye, O mountains of Israel, ye shall shoot forth your
branches, and yield your fruit to my people of Israel; for they are at
hand to come.

9. Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which
was evil in the sight of the LORD.

9. Then he sheweth them their work, and their
transgressions that they have exceeded.

9. For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see
light.

9. How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least
of my master’s servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and
for horsemen?

9. And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of
Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, that they proclaimed a fast
before the LORD to all the people in Jerusalem, and to all the people
that came from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem.

9. For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn unto you, and ye shall
be tilled and sown:

10. And when the year was expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and
brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of the
LORD, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.

10. He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that
they return from iniquity.

10. O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy
righteousness to the upright in heart.

10. And am I now come up without the LORD against
this land to destroy it? the LORD said unto me, Go up against this
land, and destroy it.

10. Then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house
of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe,
in the higher court, at the entry of the new gate of the LORD’s house,
in the ears of all the people.

10. And I will multiply men upon you, all the
house of Israel, even all of it: and the cities shall be inhabited,
and the wastes shall be builded:

11. Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign,
and reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.

11. If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in
prosperity, and their years in pleasures.

11. Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand
of the wicked remove me.

11. Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I
pray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand
it: and speak not to us in the Jews’ language, in the ears of the
people that are on the wall.

11. When Michaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard
out of the book all the words of the LORD,

11. And I will multiply upon you
man and beast; and they shall increase and bring fruit: and I will
settle you after your old estates, and will do better unto you than at
your beginnings: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

12. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God,
and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the
mouth of the LORD.

12. But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they
shall die without knowledge.

12. There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down,
and shall not be able to rise.

12. But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to
thee to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men that sit
upon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own
piss with you?

12. Then he went down
into the king’s house, into the scribe’s chamber: and, lo, all the
princes sat there, even Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of
Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of
Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.

12. Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel;
and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt be their inheritance, and
thou shalt no more henceforth bereave them of men.

13. And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made
him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart
from turning unto the LORD God of Israel.

13. But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he
bindeth them.

13. Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud
voice in the Jews’ language, and said, Hear ye the words of the great
king, the king of Assyria.

13. Then Michaiah declared unto them all the words that he had
heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.

13. Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they say unto you, Thou land
devourest up men, and hast bereaved thy nations:

14. Moreover all the chief of the priests, and the people,
transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen; and
polluted the house of the LORD which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.

14. They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.

14. Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall
not be able to deliver you.

14. Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the
son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, Take in thine
hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and
come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came
unto them.

14. Therefore thou
shalt devour men no more, neither bereave thy nations any more, saith
the Lord GOD.

15. And the LORD God of their fathers sent to them by his
messengers, rising up betimes, and sending; because he had compassion
on his people, and on his dwelling place:

15. He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears
in oppression.

15. Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, The
LORD will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into the
hand of the king of Assyria.

15. And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears.
So Baruch read it in their ears.

15. Neither will I cause men to hear in thee the shame of the
heathen any more, neither shalt thou bear the reproach of the people
any more, neither shalt thou cause thy nations to fall any more, saith
the Lord GOD.

16. But they mocked the
messengers of God, and despised his words, and misused his prophets,
until the wrath of the LORD arose against his people, till there was
no remedy.

16. Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a
broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be
set on thy table should be full of fatness.

16. Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria,
Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me: and eat ye
every one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye
every one the waters of his own cistern;

16. Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they
were afraid both one and other, and said unto Baruch, We will surely
tell the king of all these words.

16. Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

17. Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, who
slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary,
and had no compassion upon young man or maiden, old man, or him that
stooped for age: he gave them all into his hand.

17. But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and
justice take hold on thee.

17. Until I come and take
you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land
of bread and vineyards.

17. And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How didst thou write
all these words at his mouth?

17. Son of
man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it
by their own way and by their doings: their way was before me as the
uncleanness of a removed woman.

18. And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and
the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king,
and of his princes; all these he brought to Babylon.

18. Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his
stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.

18. Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, the LORD will deliver
us.

Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand
of the king of Assyria?

18. Then Baruch answered them, He
pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them
with ink in the book.

18. Wherefore I poured my fury upon them for the blood that they had
shed upon the land, and for their idols wherewith they had polluted
it:

19. And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of
Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed
all the goodly vessels thereof.

19. Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of
strength.

19. Where are the gods of Hamath and
Arphad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered
Samaria out of my hand?

19. Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou and
Jeremiah; and let no man know where ye be.

19. And I scattered them among the heathen, and they were
dispersed through the countries: according to their way and according
to their doings I judged them.

20. And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to
Babylon; where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign
of the kingdom of Persia:

20. Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.

20. Who are they among all the gods of
these lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that the
LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?

20. And they went in to the king into the court, but they laid up
the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and told all the words
in the ears of the king.

20. And when they entered unto the heathen, whither they went, they
profaned my holy name, when they said to them, These are the people of
the LORD, and are gone forth out of his land.

21. To fulfil the word of the LORD by the
mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths: for as
long as she lay desolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and
ten years.

21. Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather
than affliction.

21. But they held
their peace, and answered him not a word: for the king’s commandment
was, saying, Answer him not.

21. So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll: and he took it out of
Elishama the scribe’s chamber. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the
king, and in the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king.

21. But I had pity for mine holy name, which the house of Israel had
profaned among the heathen, whither they went.

22. Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of
the LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the
LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a
proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing,
saying,

22. Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him?

22. Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that was over the
household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the
recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words
of Rabshakeh.

22. Now the king sat in the winterhouse in the ninth month: and
there was a fire on the hearth burning before him.

22. Therefore say unto the house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD;
I do not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for mine holy
name’s sake, which ye have profaned among the heathen, whither ye
went.

23. Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the
earth hath the LORD God of heaven given me; and he hath charged me to
build him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among
you of all his people? The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.




The Book of Ezra

23. Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought
iniquity?

23. And it came to pass, that when Jehudi had read three or four
leaves, he cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that
was on the hearth, until all the roll was consumed in the fire that
was on the hearth.

23. And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among the
heathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of them; and the heathen
shall know that I am the LORD, saith the Lord GOD, when I shall be
sanctified in you before their eyes.

24. Remember that thou magnify his work, which men
behold.

24. Yet they were not afraid, nor rent their garments, neither the
king, nor any of his servants that heard all these words.

24. For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out
of all countries, and will bring you into your own land.

25. Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off.

25. Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made
intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll: but he would
not hear them.

25. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be
clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I
cleanse you.

26. Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the
number of his years be searched out.

26. But the king commanded Jerahmeel the son of Hammelech, and
Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take
Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet: but the LORD hid them.

26. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put
within you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh,
and I will give you an heart of flesh.

27. For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain
according to the vapour thereof:

27. Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, after that the king
had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of
Jeremiah, saying,

27. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my
statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them.

28. Which the clouds do drop and
distil upon man abundantly.

28. Take thee again another roll, and write in it
all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the
king of Judah hath burned.

28. And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and
ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.

29. Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the
noise of his tabernacle?

29. And thou shalt say to Jehoiakim king of Judah, Thus saith the
LORD; Thou hast burned this roll, saying, Why hast thou written
therein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy
this land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast?

29. I will also save you from all your uncleannesses: and I will
call for the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you.

30. Behold, he spreadeth his light upon
it, and covereth the bottom of the sea.

30. Therefore thus saith the LORD of Jehoiakim king of Judah; He shall
have none to sit upon the throne of David: and his dead body shall be
cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.

30. And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of
the field, that ye shall receive no more reproach of famine among the
heathen.

31. For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance.

31. And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their
iniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of
Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have
pronounced against them; but they hearkened not.

31. Then shall ye remember your own evil ways, and your doings that
were not good, and shall lothe yourselves in your own sight for your
iniquities and for your abominations.

32. With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to
shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.

32. Then took Jeremiah another roll, and gave it to Baruch the
scribe, the son of Neriah; who wrote therein from the mouth of
Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had
burned in the fire: and there were added besides unto them many like
words.

32. Not for your sakes do I this, saith the Lord GOD, be it known
unto you: be ashamed and confounded for your own ways, O house of
Israel.

33. The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also
concerning the vapour.

33. Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day that I shall have cleansed
you from all your iniquities I will also cause you to dwell in the
cities, and the wastes shall be builded.

34. And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate
in the sight of all that passed by.

35. And they shall say, This land that was desolate is become like
the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are
become fenced, and are inhabited.

36. Then the heathen that are left round about you shall know that I
the LORD build the ruined places, and plant that that was desolate: I
the LORD have spoken it, and I will do it.

37. Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will yet for this be enquired of by
the house of Israel, to do it for them; I will increase them with men
like a flock.

38. As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her solemn
feasts; so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men: and
they shall know that I am the LORD.