1. Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said,

1. I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and
heard my cry.

1. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.

1. The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after that
Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when
he had taken him being bound in chains among all that were carried
away captive of Jerusalem and Judah, which were carried away captive
unto Babylon.

1. In the five and twentieth year of our captivity, in the beginning
of the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year
after that the city was smitten, in the selfsame day the hand of the
LORD was upon me, and brought me thither.

2. Shall he that
contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth God, let
him answer it.

2. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry
clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.

2. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her
warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath
received of the LORD’s hand double for all her sins.

2. And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said unto him,
The LORD thy God hath pronounced this evil upon this place.

2. In the visions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, and
set me upon a very high mountain, by which was as the frame of a city
on the south.

3. Then Job answered the LORD, and said,

3. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God:
many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.

3. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
way of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.

3. Now the LORD hath brought it, and done according as he hath said:
because ye have sinned against the LORD, and have not obeyed his
voice, therefore this thing is come upon you.

3. And he brought me thither, and, behold, there was a man, whose
appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in
his hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate.

4. Behold, I am vile;
what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.

4. Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and
respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

4. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall
be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough
places plain:

4. And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains which were
upon thine hand. If it seem good unto thee to come with me into
Babylon, come; and I will look well unto thee: but if it seem ill unto
thee to come with me into Babylon, forbear: behold, all the land is
before thee: whither it seemeth good and convenient for thee to go,
thither go.

4. And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, and
hear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shall shew
thee; for to the intent that I might shew them unto thee art thou
brought hither: declare all that thou seest to the house of Israel.

5. Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will
proceed no further.

5. Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast
done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned
up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are
more than can be numbered.

5. And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and
all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken
it.

5. Now while he was not yet gone back, he said, Go back also to
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, whom the king of
Babylon hath made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with
him among the people: or go wheresoever it seemeth convenient unto
thee to go. So the captain of the guard gave him victuals and a
reward, and let him go.

5. And behold a wall on the outside of the house round about, and in
the man’s hand a measuring reed of six cubits long by the cubit and an
hand breadth: so he measured the breadth of the building, one reed;
and the height, one reed.

6. Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,

6. Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou
opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.

6. The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is
grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field:

6. Then went Jeremiah unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and
dwelt with him among the people that were left in the land.

6. Then came he unto the gate which looketh toward the east, and
went up the stairs thereof, and measured the threshold of the gate,
which was one reed broad; and the other threshold of the gate, which
was one reed broad.

7. Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and
declare thou unto me.

7. Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written
of me,

7. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the
LORD bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.

7. Now when all the captains of the forces which were in the fields,
even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed
unto him men, and women, and children, and of the poor of the land, of
them that were not carried away captive to Babylon;

7. And every little chamber was one reed long, and one reed broad;
and between the little chambers were five cubits; and the threshold of
the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed.

8. Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that
thou mayest be righteous?

8. I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my
heart.

8. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God
shall stand for ever.

8. Then they
came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and
Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of
Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the
son of a Maachathite, they and their men.

8. He measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed.

9. Hast thou an arm like God? or canst
thou thunder with a voice like him?

9. I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I
have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

9. O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high
mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice
with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of
Judah, Behold your God!

9. And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan sware unto them
and to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the Chaldeans: dwell in
the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with
you.

9. Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and the
posts thereof, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was inward.

10. Deck thyself now with
majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.

10. I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have
declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy
lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.

10. Behold, the Lord GOD will come with
strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward is
with him, and his work before him.

10. As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah, to serve the
Chaldeans, which will come unto us: but ye, gather ye wine, and summer
fruits, and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your
cities that ye have taken.

10. And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on this
side, and three on that side; they three were of one measure: and the
posts had one measure on this side and on that side.

11. Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one that is
proud, and abase him.

11. Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy
lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.

11. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the
lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead
those that are with young.

11. Likewise when all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the
Ammonites, and in Edom, and that were in all the countries, heard that
the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set
over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan;

11. And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten
cubits; and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits.

12. Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread
down the wicked in their place.

12. For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities
have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are
more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.

12. Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and
meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth
in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a
balance?

12. Even
all the Jews returned out of all places whither they were driven, and
came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, unto Mizpah, and gathered wine
and summer fruits very much.

12. The space also before the little chambers was one cubit on this
side, and the space was one cubit on that side: and the little
chambers were six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.

13. Hide them in the dust together; and bind their faces in secret.

13. Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help
me.

13. Who hath directed the Spirit of the LORD, or being his
counsellor hath taught him?

13. Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces that were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah,

13. He measured then the gate from the roof of one little chamber to
the roof of another: the breadth was five and twenty cubits, door
against door.

14. Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can
save thee.

14. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my
soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that
wish me evil.

14. With whom took he counsel, and who
instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him
knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?

14. And
said unto him, Dost thou certainly know that Baalis the king of the
Ammonites hath sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to slay thee? But
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam believed them not.

14. He made also posts of threescore cubits, even unto the post of
the court round about the gate.

15. Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as
an ox.

15. Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto
me, Aha, aha.

15. Behold,
the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small
dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little
thing.

15. Then Johanan the son of Kareah spake to Gedaliah in Mizpah
secretly saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will slay Ishmael the
son of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it: wherefore should he slay
thee, that all the Jews which are gathered unto thee should be
scattered, and the remnant in Judah perish?

15. And from the face of the gate of the entrance unto the face of
the porch of the inner gate were fifty cubits.

16. Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the
navel of his belly.

16. Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let
such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.

16. And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof
sufficient for a burnt offering.

16. But Gedaliah the
son of Ahikam said unto Johanan the son of Kareah, Thou shalt not do
this thing: for thou speakest falsely of Ishmael.

16. And there were narrow windows to the little chambers, and to
their posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches:
and windows were round about inward: and upon each post were palm
trees.

17. He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are
wrapped together.

17. But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art
my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.

17. All nations before him are as nothing; and they are counted to
him less than nothing, and vanity.

17. Then brought he me into the outward court, and, lo, there were
chambers, and a pavement made for the court round about: thirty
chambers were upon the pavement.

18. His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars
of iron.

18. To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare
unto him?

18. And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the
length of the gates was the lower pavement.

19. He is the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make
his sword to approach unto him.

19. The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldsmith
spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains.

19. Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower
gate unto the forefront of the inner court without, an hundred cubits
eastward and northward.

20. Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts
of the field play.

20. He that is so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth a
tree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a cunning workman to
prepare a graven image, that shall not be moved.

20. And the gate of the outward court that looked toward the north,
he measured the length thereof, and the breadth thereof.

21. He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and
fens.

21. Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not been told you
from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the
earth?

21. And the little chambers thereof were three on this side and
three on that side; and the posts thereof and the arches thereof were
after the measure of the first gate: the length thereof was fifty
cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.

22. The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the
brook compass him about.

22. It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and
the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the
heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in:

22. And their windows, and their arches, and their palm trees, were
after the measure of the gate that looketh toward the east; and they
went up unto it by seven steps; and the arches thereof were before
them.

23. Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not: he trusteth
that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.

23. That bringeth the princes to nothing; he maketh the judges of
the earth as vanity.

23. And the gate of the inner court was over against the gate toward
the north, and toward the east; and he measured from gate to gate an
hundred cubits.

24. He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.

24. Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown:
yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also
blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take
them away as stubble.

24. After that he brought me toward the south, and behold a gate
toward the south: and he measured the posts thereof and the arches
thereof according to these measures.

25. To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith the
Holy One.

25. And there were windows in it and in the arches thereof round
about, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the
breadth five and twenty cubits.

26. Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these
things, that bringeth out their host by number: he calleth them all by
names by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong in power;
not one faileth.

26. And there were seven steps to go up to it, and the arches
thereof were before them: and it had palm trees, one on this side, and
another on that side, upon the posts thereof.

27. Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid
from the LORD, and my judgment is passed over from my God?

27. And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south: and he
measured from gate to gate toward the south an hundred cubits.

28. Hast
thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the
LORD, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is
weary? there is no searching of his understanding.

28. And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and he
measured the south gate according to these measures;

29. He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he
increaseth strength.

29. And the
little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the arches
thereof, according to these measures: and there were windows in it and
in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty cubits long, and five
and twenty cubits broad.

30. Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men
shall utterly fall:

30. And the arches round about were five and twenty cubits long, and
five cubits broad.

31. But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew
their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall
run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

31. And the arches thereof were toward the utter court; and palm
trees were upon the posts thereof: and the going up to it had eight
steps.

32. And he brought me into the inner court toward the east: and he
measured the gate according to these measures.

33. And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the
arches thereof, were according to these measures: and there were
windows therein and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty
cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad.

34. And the arches thereof were toward the outward court; and palm
trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and
the going up to it had eight steps.

35. And he brought me to the north gate, and measured it according
to these measures;

36. The little chambers thereof, the posts
thereof, and the arches thereof, and the windows to it round about:
the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.

37. And the posts thereof were toward the utter court; and palm
trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and
the going up to it had eight steps.

38. And the chambers and the entries thereof were by the posts of
the gates, where they washed the burnt offering.

39. And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and
two tables on that side, to slay thereon the burnt offering and the
sin offering and the trespass offering.

40. And at the side without, as one goeth up to the entry of the
north gate, were two tables; and on the other side, which was at the
porch of the gate, were two tables.

41. Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, by
the side of the gate; eight tables, whereupon they slew their
sacrifices.

42. And the four tables were of hewn stone for the burnt offering,
of a cubit and an half long, and a cubit and an half broad, and one
cubit high: whereupon also they laid the instruments wherewith they
slew the burnt offering and the sacrifice.

43. And within were hooks, an hand broad, fastened round about: and
upon the tables was the flesh of the offering.

44. And without the inner gate were the chambers of the singers in
the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate; and their
prospect was toward the south: one at the side of the east gate having
the prospect toward the north.

45. And he said unto me, This chamber, whose prospect is toward the
south, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house.

46. And the chamber whose prospect is toward the north is for the
priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar: these are the sons of
Zadok among the sons of Levi, which come near to the LORD to minister
unto him.

47. So he measured the court, an hundred cubits long, and an hundred
cubits broad, foursquare; and the altar that was before the house.

48. And he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured each
post of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that
side: and the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side, and
three cubits on that side.

49. The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth
eleven cubits, and he brought me by the steps whereby they went up to
it: and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another
on that side.