1. O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth
for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where
no water is;

1. Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from
Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the
greatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to
save.

2. To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the
sanctuary.

2. Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like
him that treadeth in the winefat?

3. Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall
praise thee.

3. I have trodden the winepress
alone; and of the people there was none with me: for I will tread them
in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be
sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.

4. Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in
thy name.

4. For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my
redeemed is come.

5. My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my
mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:

5. And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that
there was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation
unto me; and my fury, it upheld me.

6. When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the
night watches.

6. And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them
drunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth.

7. Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy
wings will I rejoice.

7. I will mention the lovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praises
of the LORD, according to all that the LORD hath bestowed on us, and
the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed
on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of
his lovingkindnesses.

8. My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.

8. For he said, Surely they are my people, children that will not
lie: so he was their Saviour.

9. But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the
lower parts of the earth.

9. In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his
presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and
he bare them, and carried them all the days of old.

10. They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.

10. But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he was
turned to be their enemy, and he fought against them.

11. But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by
him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be
stopped.

11. Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, and his people,
saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the
shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit within
him?

12. That led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious
arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting
name?

13. That led them through the deep, as an horse in the
wilderness, that they should not stumble?

14. As a beast goeth down
into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest: so didst
thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name.

15. Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy
holiness and of thy glory: where is thy zeal and thy strength, the
sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me? are they
restrained?

16. Doubtless thou art our father, though Abraham be
ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O LORD, art our
father, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting.

17. O LORD, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardened
our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants’ sake, the tribes of
thine inheritance.

18. The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while:
our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.

19. We are thine: thou never barest rule over them; they were not
called by thy name.