1. Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of
the enemy.

1. Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come
down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence,

2. Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the
insurrection of the workers of iniquity:

2. As when
the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to make
thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at
thy presence!

3. Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot
their arrows, even bitter words:

3. When thou didst terrible things which we looked
not for, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.

4. That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they
shoot at him, and fear not.

4. For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor
perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee,
what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him.

5. They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of
laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?

5. Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those
that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have
sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.

6. They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search:
both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.

6. But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses
are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities,
like the wind, have taken us away.

7. But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be
wounded.

7. And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up
himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, and
hast consumed us, because of our iniquities.

8. So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all
that see them shall flee away.

8. But now, O LORD, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou
our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.

9. And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for
they shall wisely consider of his doing.

9. Be not wroth very sore, O LORD, neither remember iniquity for
ever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people.

10. The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him;
and all the upright in heart shall glory.

10. Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness,
Jerusalem a desolation.

11. Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised
thee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid
waste.

12. Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O LORD? wilt thou
hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?