1. But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the
daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites,
Zidonians, and Hittites:

1. And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.

1. Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,
Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

1. And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house
of Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,
which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring the
kingdom again to Rehoboam.

2. Of the nations concerning which the LORD
said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither
shall they come in unto you: for surely they will turn away your heart
after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love.

2. But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah,
took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s
sons which were slain; and they hid him, even him and his nurse, in
the bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.

2. And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, thou wast he
that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God said
unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be ruler
over my people Israel.

2. But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

3. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred
concubines: and his wives turned away his heart.

3. And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. And
Athaliah did reign over the land.

3. Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron;
and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and
they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the
LORD by Samuel.

3. Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all
Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying,

4. For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned
away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with
the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.

4. And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over
hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to him
into the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and took an
oath of them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king’s son.

4. And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; where
the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land.

4. Thus saith the LORD, Ye
shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to
his house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words of
the LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.

5. For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians,
and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.

5. And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall
do; A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even be
keepers of the watch of the king’s house;

5. And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come
hither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city
of David.

5. And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in
Judah.

6. And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and went not fully
after the LORD, as did David his father.

6. And a third part shall
be at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard:
so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down.

6. And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be
chief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and was
chief.

6. He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,

7. Then did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination
of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the
abomination of the children of Ammon.

7. And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even they
shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

7. And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the city
of David.

7. And Bethzur,
and Shoco, and Adullam,

8. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt
incense and sacrificed unto their gods.

8. And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his
weapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let him be
slain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he cometh in.

8. And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about:
and Joab repaired the rest of the city.

8. And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,

9. And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned
from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice,

9. And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things
that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men
that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out on
the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.

9. So David waxed greater and greater: for the LORD of hosts was
with him.

9. And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,

10. And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go
after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded.

10. And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give king
David’s spears and shields, that were in the temple of the LORD.

10. These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who
strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and with all Israel,
to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.

10. And Zorah, and Aijalon,
and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.

11. Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done
of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I
have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and
will give it to thy servant.

11. And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand,
round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left
corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple.

11. And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had;
Jashobeam, an Hachmonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up his
spear against three hundred slain by him at one time.

11. And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, and
store of victual, and of oil and wine.

12. Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy
father’s sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son.

12. And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown upon him,
and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him;
and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king.

12. And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was
one of the three mighties.

12. And in every several city he put shields and spears, and made
them exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

13. Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one
tribe to thy son for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake
which I have chosen.

13. And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the
people, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.

13. He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were
gathered together to battle, where was a parcel of ground full of
barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.

13. And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted
to him out of all their coasts.

14. And the LORD stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the
Edomite: he was of the king’s seed in Edom.

14. And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the
manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and all
the people of the land rejoiced, and blew with trumpets: and Athaliah
rent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.

14. And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, and
delivered it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a
great deliverance.

14. For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them
off from executing the priest’s office unto the LORD:

15. For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the
captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain, after he had
smitten every male in Edom;

15. But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds,
the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth without
the ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For the
priest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the LORD.

15. Now three of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David,
into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines encamped in
the valley of Rephaim.

15. And he
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for
the calves which he had made.

16. (For six months did Joab remain
there with all Israel, until he had cut off every male in Edom:)

16. And they laid hands on her; and she went by the way by the which
the horses came into the king’s house: and there was she slain.

16. And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines’ garrison
was then at Bethlehem.

16. And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set their
hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrifice
unto the LORD God of their fathers.

17. That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with
him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child.

17. And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and
the people, that they should be the LORD’s people; between the king
also and the people.

17. And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!

17. So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the
son of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in the
way of David and Solomon.

18. And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took
men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king
of Egypt; which gave him an house, and appointed him victuals, and
gave him land.

18. And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and
brake it down; his altars and his images brake they in pieces
thoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And
the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD.

18. And
the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water
out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and
brought it to David: but David would not drink of it, but poured it
out to the LORD.

18. And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son
of David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;

19. And Hadad found great favour in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he
gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes
the queen.

19. And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captains, and the
guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king
from the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the
guard to the king’s house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.

19. And said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this thing:
shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in
jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it.
Therefore he would not drink it.

These things did these three mightiest.

19. Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.

20. And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom
Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house: and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s
household among the sons of Pharaoh.

20. And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was in
quiet: and they slew Athaliah with the sword beside the king’s house.

20. And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: for
lifting up his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had a
name among the three.

20. And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; which
bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

21. And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers,
and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh,
Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.

21. Seven years old was Jehoash when he began to reign.

21. Of the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he was
their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.

21. And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his
wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore
concubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescore
daughters.)

22. Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me,
that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he
answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go in any wise.

22. Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionlike men of Moab:
also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.

22. And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the
chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him
king.

23. And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of
Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah:

23. And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits
high; and in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and
he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the
Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear.

23. And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children
throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced
city: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired many
wives.

24. And
he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a band, when David
slew them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and
reigned in Damascus.

24. These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name
among the three mighties.

25. And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon,
beside the mischief that Hadad did: and he abhorred Israel, and
reigned over Syria.

25. Behold, he was honourable among the thirty, but attained not to
the first three: and David set him over his guard.

26. And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda,
Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow woman, even
he lifted up his hand against the king.

26. Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of
Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

27. And this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the
king: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breaches of the city of
David his father.

27. Shammoth the
Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,

28. And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valour: and Solomon
seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over
all the charge of the house of Joseph.

28. Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Abiezer the Antothite,

29. And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of
Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way;
and he had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in
the field:

29. Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the
Ahohite,

30. And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him,
and rent it in twelve pieces:

30. Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the
Netophathite,

31. And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee
ten pieces: for thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, Behold, I will
rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes
to thee:

31. Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertained
to the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

32. (But he shall have one tribe for my servant David’s
sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake, the city which I have chosen out of
all the tribes of Israel:)

32. Hurai of
the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

33. Because that they have forsaken me,
and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh
the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon,
and have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in mine
eyes, and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as did David his
father.

33. Azmaveth the
Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,

34. Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand: but I
will make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant’s
sake, whom I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes:

34. The sons of Hashem the
Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite,

35. But I will take the kingdom out of his son’s hand, and will give
it unto thee, even ten tribes.

35. Ahiam the son
of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,

36. And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my servant
may have a light alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have
chosen me to put my name there.

36. Hepher the
Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,

37. And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that
thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.

37. Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai
the son of Ezbai,

38. And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command
thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that is right in my sight, to
keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did; that I
will be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built for David,
and will give Israel unto thee.

38. Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of
Haggeri,

39. And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not for ever.

39. Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the
armourbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

40. Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose,
and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt
until the death of Solomon.

40. Ira the Ithrite, Gareb
the Ithrite,

41. And the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and
his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?

41. Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

42. And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel
was forty years.

42. Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, and
thirty with him,

43. And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

43. Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the
Mithnite,

44. Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of
Hothan the Aroerite,

45. Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his
brother, the Tizite,

46. Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and
Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,

47. Eliel,
and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.