1. And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem
to make him king.

1. In the seventh year of Jehu Jehoash began to reign; and forty
years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

1. Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, while he yet
kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish: and they were
among the mighty men, helpers of the war.

1. And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom,
and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the LORD, and all
Israel with him.

2. And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was yet
in Egypt, heard of it, (for he was fled from the presence of king
Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt;)

2. And Jehoash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
his days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.

2. They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and
the left in hurling stones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even of
Saul’s brethren of Benjamin.

2. And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king Rehoboam
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had
transgressed against the LORD,

3. That they sent and called
him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake
unto Rehoboam, saying,

3. But the high places were not taken away: the people still
sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.

3. The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the
Gibeathite; and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah,
and Jehu the Antothite.

3. With twelve hundred chariots, and
threescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without number that
came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the
Ethiopians.

4. Thy father made our yoke grievous: now
therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy
yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.

4. And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the dedicated
things that is brought into the house of the LORD, even the money of
every one that passeth the account, the money that every man is set
at, and all the money that cometh into any man’s heart to bring into
the house of the LORD,

4. And Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and
over the thirty; and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad
the Gederathite,

4. And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and came
to Jerusalem.

5. And he said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again
to me. And the people departed.

5. Let the priests take it to them, every man
of his acquaintance: and let them repair the breaches of the house,
wheresoever any breach shall be found.

5. Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and
Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,

5. Then came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of
Judah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak,
and said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, and
therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.

6. And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before
Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that
I may answer this people?

6. But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of king
Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.

6. Elkanah, and Jesiah, and
Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites,

6. Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves;
and they said, The LORD is righteous.

7. And they spake unto him, saying, If
thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them,
and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy
servants for ever.

7. Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the other
priests, and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of the
house? now therefore receive no more money of your acquaintance, but
deliver it for the breaches of the house.

7. And Joelah, and
Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.

7. And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of
the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves;
therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some
deliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by
the hand of Shishak.

8. But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given
him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, and
which stood before him:

8. And the priests consented to receive no more money of the people,
neither to repair the breaches of the house.

8. And of the Gadites there separated themselves unto David into the
hold to the wilderness men of might, and men of war fit for the
battle, that could handle shield and buckler, whose faces were like
the faces of lions, and were as swift as the roes upon the mountains;

8. Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may know my
service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.

9. And he said unto them, What counsel give
ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make
the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?

9. But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lid
of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one cometh
into the house of the LORD: and the priests that kept the door put
therein all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.

9. Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,

9. So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away
the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the
king’s house; he took all: he carried away also the shields of gold
which Solomon had made.

10. And the
young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus
shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy
father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus
shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my
father’s loins.

10. And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the
chest, that the king’s scribe and the high priest came up, and they
put up in bags, and told the money that was found in the house of the
LORD.

10. Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,

10. Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass, and
committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard, that kept the
entrance of the king’s house.

11. And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will
add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will
chastise you with scorpions.

11. And they gave the money, being told, into the hands of them that
did the work, that had the oversight of the house of the LORD: and
they laid it out to the carpenters and builders, that wrought upon the
house of the LORD,

11. Attai the sixth,
Eliel the seventh,

11. And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard
came and fetched them, and brought them again into the guard chamber.

12. So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day,
as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day.

12. And to masons, and hewers of stone, and to
buy timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the house of the
LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.

12. Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,

12. And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from
him, that he would not destroy him altogether: and also in Judah
things went well.

13. And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old
men’s counsel that they gave him;

13. Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of
silver, snuffers, basons, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of
silver, of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD:

13. Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.

13. So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned:
for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had
chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his
mother’s name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

14. And spake to them after the
counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and
I will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but
I will chastise you with scorpions.

14. But they gave that to the workmen, and repaired therewith the
house of the LORD.

14. These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host: one of the
least was over an hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.

14. And he did evil, because he prepared not his heart to seek the
LORD.

15. Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause
was from the LORD, that he might perform his saying, which the LORD
spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

15. Moreover they reckoned not with the men, into whose hand they
delivered the money to be bestowed on workmen: for they dealt
faithfully.

15. These are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when it
had overflown all his banks; and they put to flight all them of the
valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.

15. Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written
in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning
genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam
continually.

16. So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them,
the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David?
neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O
Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto
their tents.

16. The trespass money and sin money was not brought into the house
of the LORD: it was the priests’.

16. And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the hold
unto David.

16. And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.

17. But as for the children of Israel which dwelt in the cities of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

17. Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, and
took it: and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem.

17. And David went out to meet them, and answered and said unto
them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall be
knit unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, seeing
there is no wrong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look thereon,
and rebuke it.

18. Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute; and
all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. Therefore king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to
Jerusalem.

18. And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that
Jehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah,
had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was
found in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and in the king’s
house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria: and he went away from
Jerusalem.

18. Then the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains,
and he said, Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse:
peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thine helpers; for thy God
helpeth thee.

Then David received them, and made them captains of the band.

19. So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.

19. And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

19. And there fell some of Manasseh to David, when he came with the
Philistines against Saul to battle: but they helped them not: for the
lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, He
will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.

20. And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was
come again, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and
made him king over all Israel: there was none that followed the house
of David, but the tribe of Judah only.

20. And his servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and slew Joash in
the house of Millo, which goeth down to Silla.

20. As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and
Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and
Zilthai, captains of the thousands that were of Manasseh.

21. And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the
house of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, an hundred and fourscore
thousand chosen men, which were warriors, to fight against the house
of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.

21. For Jozachar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of
Shomer, his servants, smote him, and he died; and they buried him with
his fathers in the city of David: and Amaziah his son reigned in his
stead.

21. And they helped David against the band of the rovers: for they
were all mighty men of valour, and were captains in the host.

22. But the word of God came unto Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

22. For at that time day by day there came to David to help him,
until it was a great host, like the host of God.

23. Speak unto Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto
all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people,
saying,

23. And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed to
the war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to
him, according to the word of the LORD.

24. Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go up, nor fight
against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his
house; for this thing is from me. They hearkened therefore to the word
of the LORD, and returned to depart, according to the word of the
LORD.

24. The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were six
thousand and eight hundred, ready armed to the war.

25. Then Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein;
and went out from thence, and built Penuel.

25. Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valour for the war,
seven thousand and one hundred.

26. And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to
the house of David:

26. Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.

27. If this people go up to do sacrifice in the
house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people
turn again unto their lord, even unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they
shall kill me, and go again to Rehoboam king of Judah.

27. And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were
three thousand and seven hundred;

28. Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves of gold,
and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem:
behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of
Egypt.

28. And Zadok, a young man mighty
of valour, and of his father’s house twenty and two captains.

29. And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan.

29. And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, three
thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept the ward of
the house of Saul.

30. And this thing became a sin: for the people went to worship
before the one, even unto Dan.

30. And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight
hundred, mighty men of valour, famous throughout the house of their
fathers.

31. And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the
lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi.

31. And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, which were
expressed by name, to come and make David king.

32. And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the
fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah, and
he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the
calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the
high places which he had made.

32. And of the children of Issachar, which were men that had
understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do; the heads
of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their
commandment.

33. So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel the
fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had
devised of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of
Israel: and he offered upon the altar, and burnt incense.

33. Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with
all instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: they
were not of double heart.

34. And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them with shield
and spear thirty and seven thousand.

35. And of the Danites expert in war twenty and eight thousand and
six hundred.

36. And of Asher, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, forty
thousand.

37. And on the other side of Jordan, of the Reubenites, and the
Gadites, and of the half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of
instruments of war for the battle, an hundred and twenty thousand.

38. All these men of war, that could keep rank, came with a perfect
heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest
also of Israel were of one heart to make David king.

39. And there they were with David three days, eating and drinking:
for their brethren had prepared for them.

40. Moreover they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar and
Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and on
mules, and on oxen, and meat, meal, cakes of figs, and bunches of
raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep abundantly: for there
was joy in Israel.