1. At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.

1. In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel
reigned Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah.

1. Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of
cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

1. So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city
of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet ten years.

2. And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise
thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and get
thee to Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, which told me
that I should be king over this people.

2. He was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

2. And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over
Israel, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his people
Israel.

2. And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD
his God:

3. And take with thee ten loaves, and cracknels, and a cruse of
honey, and go to him: he shall tell thee what shall become of the
child.

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, yet not
like David his father: he did according to all things as Joash his
father did.

3. And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons
and daughters.

3. For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves:

4. And Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and
came to the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see; for his eyes
were set by reason of his age.

4. Howbeit the high places were not taken away: as yet the people
did sacrifice and burnt incense on the high places.

4. Now these are the names of his children which he had in
Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

4. And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.

5. And the LORD said unto Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam
cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son; for he is sick: thus and
thus shalt thou say unto her: for it shall be, when she cometh in,
that she shall feign herself to be another woman.

5. And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his
hand, that he slew his servants which had slain the king his father.

5. And Ibhar,
and Elishua, and Elpalet,

5. Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

6. And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she
came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam; why
feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with heavy
tidings.

6. But the children of the murderers he slew not: according unto
that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, wherein the
LORD commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the
children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but every
man shall be put to death for his own sin.

6. And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

6. And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

7. Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Forasmuch
as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my
people Israel,

7. He slew of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and took
Selah by war, and called the name of it Joktheel unto this day.

7. And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

7. Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

8. And rent the kingdom away from the house of David,
and gave it thee: and yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who
kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do
that only which was right in mine eyes;

8. Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son
of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the
face.

8. And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over
all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard
of it, and went out against them.

8. And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields
and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty men of valour.

9. But hast done evil above
all that were before thee: for thou hast gone and made thee other
gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me
behind thy back:

9. And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah,
saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in
Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed
by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

9. And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

9. And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host
of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Mareshah.

10. Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the
house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam him that pisseth
against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel, and will
take away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as a man taketh away
dung, till it be all gone.

10. Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thine heart hath lifted thee
up: glory of this, and tarry at home: for why shouldest thou meddle to
thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?

10. And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the
Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD
said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.

10. Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

11. Him that dieth of Jeroboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and
him that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat: for the
LORD hath spoken it.

11. But Amaziah would not hear. Therefore Jehoash king of Israel
went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the
face at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.

11. So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. Then
David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the
breaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that place
Baalperazim.

11. And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have
no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail against thee.

12. Arise thou therefore, get thee to thine own house: and when thy
feet enter into the city, the child shall die.

12. And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled
every man to their tents.

12. And when they had left their gods there, David gave a
commandment, and they were burned with fire.

12. So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
and the Ethiopians fled.

13. And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him: for he only of
Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some
good thing toward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam.

13. And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son
of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and came to Jerusalem,
and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the
corner gate, four hundred cubits.

13. And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the
valley.

13. And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto
Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and they carried away very much spoil.

14. Moreover the LORD shall raise him up a king over Israel, who
shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even now.

14. And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that
were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the
king’s house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.

14. Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Go
not up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them over
against the mulberry trees.

14. And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there
was exceeding much spoil in them.

15. For the LORD shall smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the
water, and he shall root up Israel out of this good land, which he
gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river,
because they have made their groves, provoking the LORD to anger.

15. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might,
and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in
the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

15. And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in the
tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: for
God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

15. They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.

16. And he shall give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, who
did sin, and who made Israel to sin.

16. And Jehoash
slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of
Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.

16. David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote the
host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

17. And Jeroboam’s wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: and
when she came to the threshold of the door, the child died;

17. And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

17. And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORD
brought the fear of him upon all nations.

18. And
they buried him; and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word
of the LORD, which he spake by the hand of his servant Ahijah the
prophet.

18. And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

19. And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he
reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

19. Now they made a
conspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled to Lachish; but they
sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.

20. And the days which Jeroboam reigned were two and twenty years:
and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.

20. And they brought him on horses: and he was buried at Jerusalem
with his fathers in the city of David.

21. And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was
forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD did choose out
of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his mother’s
name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

21. And all the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteen
years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.

22. And Judah did evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked
him to jealousy with their sins which they had committed, above all
that their fathers had done.

22. He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

23. For they also built them high places, and images, and groves, on
every high hill, and under every green tree.

23. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah
Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria,
and reigned forty and one years.

24. And there were also sodomites in the land: and they did
according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD cast
out before the children of Israel.

24. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

25. And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem:

25. He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto
the sea of the plain, according to the word of the LORD God of Israel,
which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittai,
the prophet, which was of Gathhepher.

26. And he took
away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the
king’s house; he even took away all: and he took away all the shields
of gold which Solomon had made.

26. For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very
bitter: for there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helper
for Israel.

27. And king Rehoboam made in their stead brasen shields, and
committed them unto the hands of the chief of the guard, which kept
the door of the king’s house.

27. And the LORD said not that he would blot out the name of Israel
from under heaven: but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son
of Joash.

28. And it was so, when the king went into the house of the LORD,
that the guard bare them, and brought them back into the guard
chamber.

28. Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and
his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascus, and Hamath,
which belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in the book
of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

29. Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

29. And Jeroboam slept
with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zachariah his son
reigned in his stead.

30. And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days.

31. And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David. And his mother’s name was Naamah an
Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.