1. Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat
reigned Abijam over Judah.

1. In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began
Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.

1. And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a
place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

1. And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:

2. Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. and his mother’s name was
Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

2. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned
two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jecholiah
of Jerusalem.

2. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the
Levites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and to
minister unto him for ever.

2. And
he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

3. And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done
before him: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as
the heart of David his father.

3. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah had done;

3. And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up
the ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.

3. Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and without law.

4. Nevertheless for David’s sake did the LORD his God give him a
lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish
Jerusalem:

4. Save that the
high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incense
still on the high places.

4. And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites:

4. But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

5. Because David did that which was right in the eyes of
the LORD, and turned not aside from any thing that he commanded him
all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the
Hittite.

5. And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day
of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king’s son
was over the house, judging the people of the land.

5. Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundred
and twenty:

5. And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants
of the countries.

6. And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of
his life.

6. And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

6. Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and his
brethren two hundred and twenty:

6. And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

7. Now the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And
there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.

7. So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his
fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

7. Of the sons of Gershom; Joel the
chief and his brethren an hundred and thirty:

7. Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

8. And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the
city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.

8. In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did
Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.

8. Of the sons of
Elizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred:

8. And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

9. And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned Asa
over Judah.

9. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his
fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of
Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

9. Of
the sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore:

9. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.

10. And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his
mother’s name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

10. And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote
him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

10. Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an
hundred and twelve.

10. So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

11. And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, as did
David his father.

11. And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they are written
in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

11. And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the
Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and
Amminadab,

11. And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

12. And he took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all
the idols that his fathers had made.

12. This was the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying,
Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth generation.
And so it came to pass.

12. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers
of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that
ye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that
I have prepared for it.

12. And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and with all their soul;

13. And also Maachah his mother, even her he removed from being
queen, because she had made an idol in a grove; and Asa destroyed her
idol, and burnt it by the brook Kidron.

13. Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and
thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in
Samaria.

13. For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made a
breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

13. That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

14. But the high places were not removed: nevertheless Asa’s heart
was perfect with the LORD all his days.

14. For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to
Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him,
and reigned in his stead.

14. So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up
the ark of the LORD God of Israel.

14. And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

15. And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and
the things which himself had dedicated, into the house of the LORD,
silver, and gold, and vessels.

15. And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he
made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

15. And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their
shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the
word of the LORD.

15. And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all
their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

16. And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all
their days.

16. Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the
coasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore
he smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he ripped
up.

16. And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their
brethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and
harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

16. And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook
Kidron.

17. And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built
Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go out or come in to Asa king
of Judah.

17. In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began
Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in
Samaria.

17. So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their
brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

17. But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:
nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

18. Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the
treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king’s
house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants: and king Asa
sent them to Benhadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of
Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

18. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,
who made Israel to sin.

18. And with them their
brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,
and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,
the porters.

18. And he brought into the house of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

19. There is a league between
me and thee, and between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent
unto thee a present of silver and gold; come and break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

19. And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahem
gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him
to confirm the kingdom in his hand.

19. So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound
with cymbals of brass;

19. And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

20. So Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
the hosts which he had against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon,
and Dan, and Abelbethmaachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of
Naphtali.

20. And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty
men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the
king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not
there in the land.

20. And Zechariah, and Aziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and
Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth;

21. And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off
building of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.

21. And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

21. And Mattithiah, and
Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with
harps on the Sheminith to excel.

22. Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah; none was
exempted: and they took away the stones of Ramah, and the timber
thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built with them
Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.

22. And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned
in his stead.

22. And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed
about the song, because he was skilful.

23. The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that
he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless in the time
of his old age he was diseased in his feet.

23. In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son
of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two
years.

23. And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

24. And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers
in the city of David his father: and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in
his stead.

24. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

24. And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were
doorkeepers for the ark.

25. And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the
second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.

25. But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired
against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king’s
house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites:
and he killed him, and reigned in his room.

25. So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over
thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
the house of Obededom with joy.

26. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

26. And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did,
behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of
Israel.

26. And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks and
seven rams.

27. And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar,
conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which
belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to
Gibbethon.

27. In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the
son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned
twenty years.

27. And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the
Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master
of the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of
linen.

28. Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him,
and reigned in his stead.

28. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

28. Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD
with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and
with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

29. And it came to pass, when he reigned, that he smote all the
house of Jeroboam; he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he
had destroyed him, according unto the saying of the LORD, which he
spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite:

29. In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh,
and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and
carried them captive to Assyria.

29. And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came
to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out at
a window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in
her heart.

30. Because of the sins
of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, by his
provocation wherewith he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger.

30. And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the
son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his
stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.

31. Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

31. And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold,
they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

32. And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all
their days.

32. In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel
began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.

33. In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of
Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years.

33. Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerusha,
the daughter of Zadok.

34. And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

34. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD: he did
according to all that his father Uzziah had done.

35. Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed
and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate
of the house of the LORD.

36. Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

37. In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the
king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.

38. And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in
his stead.