1. Then the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against
Baasha, saying,

1. In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz the son
of Jotham king of Judah began to reign.

1. So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the
tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices
and peace offerings before God.

1. In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king of
Israel came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that he
might let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

2. Forasmuch as I exalted thee out of the dust, and
made thee prince over my people Israel; and thou hast walked in the
way of Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me
to anger with their sins;

2. Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign, and reigned
sixteen years in Jerusalem, and did not that which was right in the
sight of the LORD his God, like David his father.

2. And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offerings
and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the
LORD.

2. Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the
house of the LORD and of the king’s house, and sent to Benhadad king
of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

3. Behold, I will take away the posterity
of Baasha, and the posterity of his house; and will make thy house
like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

3. But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and made
his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the
heathen, whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel.

3. And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every
one a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

3. There is a league
between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father:
behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

4. Him that dieth of Baasha in the city shall the dogs eat; and him
that dieth of his in the fields shall the fowls of the air eat.

4. And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on
the hills, and under every green tree.

4. And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the
ark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God
of Israel:

4. And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.

5. Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his
might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings
of Israel?

5. Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel
came up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but could not
overcome him.

5. Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and
Obededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a
sound with cymbals;

5. And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off
building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

6. So Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buried in
Tirzah: and Elah his son reigned in his stead.

6. At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, and
drave the Jews from Elath: and the Syrians came to Elath, and dwelt
there unto this day.

6. Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with
trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

6. Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the
stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha was
building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.

7. And also by the hand of the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani came
the word of the LORD against Baasha, and against his house, even for
all the evil that he did in the sight of the LORD, in provoking him to
anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam;
and because he killed him.

7. So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglathpileser king of Assyria,
saying, I am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of the
hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel,
which rise up against me.

7. Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the
LORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.

7. And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and
said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not
relied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria
escaped out of thine hand.

8. In the twenty and sixth year of Asa king of Judah began Elah the
son of Baasha to reign over Israel in Tirzah, two years.

8. And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of
the LORD, and in the treasures of the king’s house, and sent it for a
present to the king of Assyria.

8. Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known his
deeds among the people.

8. Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very
many chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,
he delivered them into thine hand.

9. And his servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired
against him, as he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house
of Arza steward of his house in Tirzah.

9. And the king of Assyria hearkened unto him: for the king of
Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried the people
of it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin.

9. Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous
works.

9. For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole
earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is
perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from
henceforth thou shalt have wars.

10. And Zimri went in and smote him, and killed him, in the twenty
and seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.

10. And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and saw an altar that was at Damascus: and king Ahaz sent to
Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it,
according to all the workmanship thereof.

10. Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that
seek the LORD.

10. Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;
for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed
some of the people the same time.

11. And it came to pass, when he began to reign, as soon as he sat
on his throne, that he slew all the house of Baasha: he left him not
one that pisseth against a wall, neither of his kinsfolks, nor of his
friends.

11. And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that king
Ahaz had sent from Damascus: so Urijah the priest made it against king
Ahaz came from Damascus.

11. Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually.

11. And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are
written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

12. Thus did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to the
word of the LORD, which he spake against Baasha by Jehu the prophet.

12. And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw the
altar: and the king approached to the altar, and offered thereon.

12. Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders,
and the judgments of his mouth;

12. And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased
in his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease
he sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.

13. For all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, by
which they sinned, and by which they made Israel to sin, in provoking
the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities.

13. And he burnt his burnt offering and his meat offering, and
poured his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace
offerings, upon the altar.

13. O ye seed of Israel his servant,
ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

13. And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth
year of his reign.

14. Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

14. And he brought also the brasen altar, which was before the LORD,
from the forefront of the house, from between the altar and the house
of the LORD, and put it on the north side of the altar.

14. He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.

14. And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made for
himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled
with sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by the
apothecaries’ art: and they made a very great burning for him.

15. In the twenty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah did Zimri
reign seven days in Tirzah. And the people were encamped against
Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.

15. And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the
great altar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meat
offering, and the king’s burnt sacrifice, and his meat offering, with
the burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their meat
offering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle upon it all the
blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice: and
the brasen altar shall be for me to enquire by.

15. Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he
commanded to a thousand generations;

16. And the people that were encamped heard say, Zimri hath
conspired, and hath also slain the king: wherefore all Israel made
Omri, the captain of the host, king over Israel that day in the camp.

16. Thus did Urijah the priest, according to all that king Ahaz
commanded.

16. Even of the covenant which
he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;

17. And Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and
they besieged Tirzah.

17. And king Ahaz cut off the borders of the bases, and removed the
laver from off them; and took down the sea from off the brasen oxen
that were under it, and put it upon the pavement of stones.

17. And hath
confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an
everlasting covenant,

18. And it came to pass, when Zimri saw that the city was taken,
that he went into the palace of the king’s house, and burnt the king’s
house over him with fire, and died.

18. And the covert for the sabbath that they had built in the house,
and the king’s entry without, turned he from the house of the LORD for
the king of Assyria.

18. Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of
Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;

19. For his sins which he sinned in doing evil in the sight of the
LORD, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did,
to make Israel to sin.

19. Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not
written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

19. When ye were but few, even
a few, and strangers in it.

20. Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he
wrought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?

20. And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in
the city of David: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

20. And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom
to another people;

21. Then were the people of Israel divided into
two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to
make him king; and half followed Omri.

21. He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he
reproved kings for their sakes,

22. But the people that followed Omri prevailed against the people
that followed Tibni the son of Ginath: so Tibni died, and Omri
reigned.

22. Saying, Touch not mine anointed,
and do my prophets no harm.

23. In the thirty and first year of Asa king of Judah began Omri to
reign over Israel, twelve years: six years reigned he in Tirzah.

23. Sing unto the LORD, all the earth; shew forth from day to day
his salvation.

24. And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of
silver, and built on the hill, and called the name of the city which
he built, after the name of Shemer, owner of the hill, Samaria.

24. Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works among
all nations.

25. But Omri wrought evil in the eyes of the LORD, and did worse
than all that were before him.

25. For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised: he also is to
be feared above all gods.

26. For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and
in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin, to provoke the LORD God of
Israel to anger with their vanities.

26. For all the gods of the people are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

27. Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might
that he shewed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of
the kings of Israel?

27. Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness are
in his place.

28. So Omri slept with his fathers, and was
buried in Samaria: and Ahab his son reigned in his stead.

28. Give unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.

29. And in the thirty and eighth year of Asa king of Judah began
Ahab the son of Omri to reign over Israel: and Ahab the son of Omri
reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years.

29. Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty of
holiness.

30. And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD above
all that were before him.

30. Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable,
that it be not moved.

31. And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to
walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took to wife
Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Zidonians, and went and
served Baal, and worshipped him.

31. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men
say among the nations, The LORD reigneth.

32. And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which
he had built in Samaria.

32. Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields
rejoice, and all that is therein.

33. And Ahab made a grove; and Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God
of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him.

33. Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of the
LORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.

34. In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho: he laid the
foundation thereof in Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates
thereof in his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD,
which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun.

34. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

35. And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us
together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks to
thy holy name, and glory in thy praise.

36. Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. And all the
people said, Amen, and praised the LORD.

37. So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD
Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as
every day’s work required:

38. And Obededom with their brethren,
threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to
be porters:

39. And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests,
before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was at
Gibeon,

40. To offer burnt offerings unto the LORD upon the altar of
the burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to do
according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which he
commanded Israel;

41. And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest
that were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the
LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever;

42. And with them Heman
and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make a
sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun
were porters.

43. And all the people departed every man to his house: and David
returned to bless his house.