1. And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead,
said unto Ahab, As the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand,
there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

1. In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son of
Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel nine years.

1. Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said
to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the ark
of the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.

1. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

2. And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

2. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but not
as the kings of Israel that were before him.

2. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; for
God is with thee.

2. And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

3. Get thee
hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith,
that is before Jordan.

3. Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hoshea
became his servant, and gave him presents.

3. And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to
Nathan, saying,

3. And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim;

4. And it shall be, that thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have
commanded the ravens to feed thee there.

4. And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he had
sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and brought no present to the
king of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of
Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.

4. Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith the
LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in:

4. But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

5. So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he
went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

5. Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and
went up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.

5. For I have
not dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this
day; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to
another.

5. Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in
abundance.

6. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and
bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.

6. In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, and
carried Israel away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah and in
Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.

6. Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any
of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying,
Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?

6. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

7. And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up,
because there had been no rain in the land.

7. For so it was, that the children of Israel had sinned against the
LORD their God, which had brought them up out of the land of Egypt,
from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other
gods,

7. Now therefore thus
shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I
took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thou
shouldest be ruler over my people Israel:

7. Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

8. And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

8. And walked in the statutes of the heathen, whom the LORD
cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of
Israel, which they had made.

8. And I have been with
thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine
enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name of
the great men that are in the earth.

8. And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,
and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram, priests.

9. Arise, get
thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there: behold,
I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee.

9. And the children of Israel did secretly those things that were
not right against the LORD their God, and they built them high places
in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced
city.

9. Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant
them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;
neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at
the beginning,

9. And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD
with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the people.

10. So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate
of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks:
and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water
in a vessel, that I may drink.

10. And they set them up images and groves in every high hill, and
under every green tree:

10. And since the time that I commanded judges to be
over my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies.
Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.

10. And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

11. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said,
Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand.

11. And there they burnt incense in all the
high places, as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away before
them; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger:

11. And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after
thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

11. Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

12. And she said, As the LORD thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but
an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and,
behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for
me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.

12. For they served idols, whereof the LORD had said unto them, Ye shall
not do this thing.

12. He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for
ever.

12. And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

13. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said:
but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and
after make for thee and for thy son.

13. Yet the LORD testified against Israel, and against Judah, by all
the prophets, and by all the seers, saying, Turn ye from your evil
ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the
law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my
servants the prophets.

13. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before
thee:

13. And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

14. For thus saith the LORD God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall
not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the
LORD sendeth rain upon the earth.

14. Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks,
like to the neck of their fathers, that did not believe in the LORD
their God.

14. But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for
ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

14. And these are the numbers of them according to the house of
their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

15. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she,
and he, and her house, did eat many days.

15. And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made
with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified against
them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after the
heathen that were round about them, concerning whom the LORD had
charged them, that they should not do like them.

15. According to all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

15. And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

16. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil
fail, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by Elijah.

16. And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, and
made them molten images, even two calves, and made a grove, and
worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.

16. And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who
am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto?

16. And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

17. And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the
woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so
sore, that there was no breath left in him.

17. And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through
the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to
do evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

17. And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;
for thou hast also spoken of thy servant’s house for a great while to
come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high
degree, O LORD God.

17. And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

18. And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou
man of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and
to slay my son?

18. Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel, and removed them
out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only.

18. What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant?
for thou knowest thy servant.

18. And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

19. And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he
took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he
abode, and laid him upon his own bed.

19. Also Judah kept not the commandments of the LORD their God, but
walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.

19. O LORD, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own
heart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all these
great things.

19. These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

20. And he cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, hast thou
also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her
son?

20. And the LORD rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted
them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast
them out of his sight.

20. O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside
thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

21. And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and
cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this
child’s soul come into him again.

21. For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made
Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel from
following the LORD, and made them sin a great sin.

21. And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom
God went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name of
greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thy
people whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?

22. And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the
child came into him again, and he revived.

22. For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam
which he did; they departed not from them;

22. For thy people
Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,
becamest their God.

23. And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the
chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah
said, See, thy son liveth.

23. Until the LORD
removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants
the prophets. So was Israel carried away out of their own land to
Assyria unto this day.

23. Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken
concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for
ever, and do as thou hast said.

24. And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a
man of God, and that the word of the LORD in thy mouth is truth.

24. And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from
Cuthah, and from Ava, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed
them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel: and
they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.

24. Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for
ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and let the house of David thy servant be established before
thee.

25. And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, that
they feared not the LORD: therefore the LORD sent lions among them,
which slew some of them.

25. For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt build
him an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to pray
before thee.

26. Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations
which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not
the manner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among
them, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not the manner of
the God of the land.

26. And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodness
unto thy servant:

27. Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of
the priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and dwell
there, and let him teach them the manner of the God of the land.

27. Now therefore let it please thee to bless the
house of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thou
blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.

28. Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria
came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the
LORD.

29. Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the
houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation
in their cities wherein they dwelt.

30. And the men of Babylon made Succothbenoth, and the men of Cuth
made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,

31. And the Avites
made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their children in
fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.

32. So they feared the LORD, and made unto themselves of the lowest
of them priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the
houses of the high places.

33. They feared the LORD, and served their own gods, after the
manner of the nations whom they carried away from thence.

34. Unto this day they do after the former manners: they fear not
the LORD, neither do they after their statutes, or after their
ordinances, or after the law and commandment which the LORD commanded
the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel;

35. With whom the LORD
had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other
gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to
them:

36. But the LORD, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt
with great power and a stretched out arm, him shall ye fear, and him
shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.

37. And the statutes, and the ordinances, and the law, and the
commandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do for
evermore; and ye shall not fear other gods.

38. And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget;
neither shall ye fear other gods.

39. But the LORD your God ye shall fear; and he shall deliver you
out of the hand of all your enemies.

40. Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their former
manner.

41. So these nations feared the LORD, and served their graven
images, both their children, and their children’s children: as did
their fathers, so do they unto this day.