1. In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim
became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against
him.

1. Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of
Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

1. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
forty years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

2. And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, and bands of
the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of
Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the
word of the LORD, which he spake by his servants the prophets.

2. But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no
children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest’s office.

2. And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
the days of Jehoiada the priest.

3. Surely at the commandment of the LORD came this upon Judah, to
remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to
all that he did;

3. And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar,
and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in
their service.

3. And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and
daughters.

4. And also for the innocent blood that he shed:
for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; which the LORD would not
pardon.

4. And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than
of the sons of Ithamar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons of
Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers,
and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their
fathers.

4. And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repair
the house of the LORD.

5. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

5. Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the
governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of
the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.

5. And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to
them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money
to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye
hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.

6. So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.

6. And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,
wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and
Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of
the priests and Levites: one principal household being taken for
Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

6. And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him,
Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and
out of Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Moses
the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for the
tabernacle of witness?

7. And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his land:
for the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto the
river Euphrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt.

7. Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,

7. For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked
woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated
things of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.

8. Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother’s name was Nehushta,
the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.

8. The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,

8. And at the king’s commandment they made a chest, and set it
without at the gate of the house of the LORD.

9. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father had done.

9. The fifth to
Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,

9. And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to
bring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid
upon Israel in the wilderness.

10. At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came
up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.

10. The seventh to Hakkoz, the
eighth to Abijah,

10. And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in,
and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.

11. And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and
his servants did besiege it.

11. The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah,

11. Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought
unto the king’s office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw
that there was much money, the king’s scribe and the high priest’s
officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his
place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in
abundance.

12. And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of
Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and
his officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of
his reign.

12. The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,

12. And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the
service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to
repair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass
to mend the house of the LORD.

13. And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of the
LORD, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the
vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of
the LORD, as the LORD had said.

13. The
thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,

13. So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, and
they set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it.

14. And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all
the mighty men of valour, even ten thousand captives, and all the
craftsmen and smiths: none remained, save the poorest sort of the
people of the land.

14. The fifteenth
to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,

14. And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the
money before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the
house of the LORD, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, and
spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt
offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of
Jehoiada.

15. And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king’s
mother, and the king’s wives, and his officers, and the mighty of the
land, those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.

15. The seventeenth to Hezir, the
eighteenth to Aphses,

15. But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; an
hundred and thirty years old was he when he died.

16. And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and
smiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war, even them the
king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.

16. The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth
to Jehezekel,

16. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings,
because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward his
house.

17. And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father’s brother king
in his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah.

17. The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and
twentieth to Gamul,

17. Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and
made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.

18. Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was
Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

18. The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four
and twentieth to Maaziah.

18. And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers, and
served groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for
this their trespass.

19. And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that Jehoiakim had done.

19. These were the orderings of them in their service to come into
the house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron their
father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.

19. Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD;
and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.

20. For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem
and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah
rebelled against the king of Babylon.

20. And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of
Amram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.

20. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada
the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus
saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, that ye
cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath also
forsaken you.

21. Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was
Isshiah.

21. And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at
the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD.

22. Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.

22. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada
his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he
said, The LORD look upon it, and require it.

23. And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

23. And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host of
Syria came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and
destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and
sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.

24. Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.

24. For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men,
and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because they
had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgment
against Joash.

25. The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah;
Zechariah.

25. And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in
great diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the blood
of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he
died: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him
not in the sepulchres of the kings.

26. The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah;
Beno.

26. And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son of
Shimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.

27. The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and
Ibri.

27. Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid
upon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they are
written in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son
reigned in his stead.

28. Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons.

29. Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.

30. The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These
were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers.

31. These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons of
Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and
the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the
principal fathers over against their younger brethren.