1. Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was
Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.

1. Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years
old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.

2. And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn,
Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,

2. He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

3. Elam
the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.

3. Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was
Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

4. Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn,
Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and
Nethaneel the fifth.

4. And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah did.

5. Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for
God blessed him.

5. And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding
in the visions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him
to prosper.

6. Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout
the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.

6. And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake
down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod,
and built cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.

7. The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad,
whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.

7. And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the
Arabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.

8. All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and their
brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and
two of Obededom.

8. And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread
abroad even to the entering in of Egypt; for he strengthened himself
exceedingly.

9. And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.

9. Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and
at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified
them.

10. Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the
chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him
the chief;)

10. Also he built towers in the desert, and digged many wells: for
he had much cattle, both in the low country, and in the plains:
husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel:
for he loved husbandry.

11. Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah
the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

11. Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out to
war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of
Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah,
one of the king’s captains.

12. Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the
chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house
of the LORD.

12. The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men
of valour were two thousand and six hundred.

13. And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to
the house of their fathers, for every gate.

13. And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and
seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to
help the king against the enemy.

14. And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his
son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out
northward.

14. And Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields,
and spears, and helmets, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to cast
stones.

15. To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.

15. And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be
on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones
withal.

And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till
he was strong.

16. To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate
Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.

16. But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his
destruction: for he transgressed against the LORD his God, and went
into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense.

17. Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four
a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.

17. And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore
priests of the LORD, that were valiant men:

18. At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.

18. And they withstood
Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee,
Uzziah, to burn incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons of
Aaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary;
for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honour from
the LORD God.

19. These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore,
and among the sons of Merari.

19. Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to burn
incense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy even
rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD,
from beside the incense altar.

20. And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house
of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.

20. And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon
him, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him
out from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because the LORD
had smitten him.

21. As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite
Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.

21. And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and
dwelt in a several house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the
house of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the king’s house,
judging the people of the land.

22. The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were
over the treasures of the house of the LORD.

22. Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah
the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.

23. Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the
Uzzielites:

23. So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his
fathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings; for
they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

24. And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses,
was ruler of the treasures.

25. And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his
son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.

26. Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of
the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the
captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host,
had dedicated.

27. Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain
the house of the LORD.

28. And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and
Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and
whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith,
and of his brethren.

29. Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward
business over Israel, for officers and judges.

30. And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of
valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of
Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD,
and in the service of the king.

31. Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the
Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the
fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there
were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.

32. And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven
hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the
Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every
matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.